THE family of McDonald Chiumia, 38, who was rescued by the police after he was allegedly kidnapped by five suspects, praised them for a job well done. Chiumia, a Malawian national, was kidnapped on Friday in Randburg while walking to his friend’s house. Of the five suspects, police confirmed that four were Malawian nationals. “I received a call about the kidnapping of my nephew by five men, I acted quickly by alerting police while the suspects were still in Eldorado Park, south of Joburg. I agreed to meet them at a fast food outlet in Sandton. “The suspects requested that I pay R22 600 for the release of my nephew, police arrested them and that was great,” McDonald’s uncle Frank Chiumia said. He said when his nephew was kidnapped and placed in the car, his friend also jumped in. “The friend was not kidnapped, only my nephew was. When he was rescued he cried and thanked God who heard his prayers. He knew two of the five kidnappers,” Chumia said. Gauteng police spokesperson, Capt Mavela Masondo said the provincial police commended the relative of the victim for thinking on his feet when he alerted police of an “arrangement” to meet with the alleged kidnappers in Sandton, “The two victims had been reported missing at Randburg police station,” Masondo said. He said the case came amid a recent increase in cases of missing persons where in most of these cases, a ransom was demanded from relatives. Masondo said Sandton police on Friday night, worked closely with the relative after his call to police and arrested five suspects for kidnapping and extortion. “Both victims were rescued from the suspects, with no visible or physical injuries. Randburg police will continue with the investigation into this case,” he said. Masondo said the five suspects would appear at Randburg Magistrate’s Court today. “Police wish to remind the public that there is no waiting period to report a missing person and that the age of the missing person is immaterial,” Masondo said. Chiumia thanked all the police involved. Police records show that at least three business people are reported kidnapped every month but there is a suspicion that the figure may be higher as some cases are not reported. Kidnapping in South Africa is becoming a worryingly common crime, with more than 4 100 cases reported in the 2013-14 period and a child reportedly going missing every five hours. ntombin@afrotone.co.za -NTOMBI NKOSI