KEY sectors of South Africa’s economy continue to spoil the predictions for positive domestic growth, improved business sentiment and a rebound in investment. Among these sectors are manufacturing, wholesale and retail trade, financial services, transport, mining, agriculture and construction, which have been punching below their weight of late, putting into question doubts around even weak GDP growth of 1.5% this year. The latest FNB/BER building confidence index for the second quarter of 2018 was released yesterday and unfortunately joins the other bad performers with a steep 14-point drop in the index to 29, wiping out all the gains made in the first quarter. The domestic economy continues to send mixed signals – a huge challenge for President Cyril Ramaphosa’s economic team who need to make good on the promise of Ramaphosa’s New Deal. Four of the six sub-sectors in the building confidence index registered lower confidence. Two – hardware retailers and manufacturers of building materials – recorded declines in excess of 30 points. The sharp decline in building confidence was reflected in related activities. For instance, the building sector’s performance was likely poorer in the second quarter relative to the first quarter, John Loos, property economist at FNB said. For some time, industry players have questioned the government’s R1 trillion infrastructure programme, saying the promised rollout of projects meant to fire up the industry has not materialised. The index is the lowest since the second quarter of 2012 and indicates that about 70% of respondents are dissatisfied with the prevailing business conditions. The confidence of main building contractors fell marginally by four points to 37 and this is more or less in line with the growth in building activity, which remains largely unchanged. Interestingly, there were some discrepancies between the performances of the two sub-sectors, residential and non-residential building, especially in terms of activity. Building activity for residential contractors was unmoved from quarter one while that of non-residential contractors improved. “This is the second consecutive improvement in non-residential building activity and points to a reasonably positive first half of the year. The factors that typically drive non-residential building investment, such as GDP growth, are not yet in place and it would be prudent to view the improvement in non-residential building activity so far this year with caution,” Loos said. Overall, the decline was mainly due to the sharply lower confidence of hardware retailers and manufacturers of building material. But, Loos said, nevertheless, activity was – with the exception of main contractors and quantity surveyors – poorer in the quarter. “The outlook is also uncertain,” he said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE |bernards@afrotone.co.za