THE public protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, has slammed a tweet by Western Cape Premier Helen Zille and has ordered the speaker of the Western Cape legislature, Sharna Fernandez, to take action against her within 30 days. Zille is spoiling to take the remedial action on judicial review. Her office posted a statement yesterday saying she had yet to get the report, but she had noted Mkhwebane’s findings announced at the press conference yesterday. “However, from what has been announced on television, the premier is likely to take this report on judicial review. The premier has already advised the public protector that, in her view, such a finding would be unlawful and irrational,” Zille’s office said. Mkhwebane told yesterday’s briefing that “the response of the premier was received, March 15, when the Premier indicated that my conclusion that her tweets gave rise to the constitutional and statutory infringements will amount to and represent an ‘arbitrary and irrational decision’ which will not withstand judicial review and scrutiny”. “So the Premier felt that it was within her rights to tweet like that because in terms of the Constitution, she has freedom of expression,” Mkhwebane said. Zille caused outrage in March last year when she posted a series of tweets seemed to be in favour of colonialism. “For those claiming legacy of colonialism was only negative, think of our independent judiciary, transport infrastructure, piped water etc,” she tweeted. Following an outpouring of anger, Zille appeared at a joint press conference with DA leader Mmusi Maimane to apologise. She said: “After a period of debate and reflection, I recognise the offence caused by my tweet on March 16 last year with regard to the legacy of colonialism. I therefore apologise unreservedly to the South African public who were offended by this tweet and my subsequent explanation of it.” At that press briefing Maimane said Zille had agreed it would be in the best interests of the party for her to vacate her positions on all decision-making structures of the party, which included her position on the federal executive, federal council and provincial council. But Khaya Magaxa, acting ANC leader in the Western Cape, reported her to the public protector. Yesterday, releasing a series of reports as part of her office’s quarterly media briefing about her investigations, Mkhwebane also released her findings on Zille. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN|news@afrotone.co.za