THE scourge of gender-based violence (GBV) in institutions of higher learning is plague that interferes with students’ studies, Higher Education and Training Deputy Minister Buti Manamela said. Speaking at the KwaZulu-Natal leg of the First Things First campaign at the Coastal TVET College in Umlazi yesterday, Manamela said genderbased violence corrupted the integrity
of the education system and eroded constitutional rights to equality, dignity and freedom from all forms of violence. According to the latest Higher Education and Training HIV-Aids programme (HEAids) Prevalence Survey, almost 40% of students and 60% of staff felt unsafe on campus. More than 60% of students felt that female students would be sexually harassed at their institution of higher learning. The survey also showed that male dominance was supported by male students and accepted by females. According to the survey 55% of males and 54% of females thought that “sexual violence does not include forcing sex with someone you know”. “This imbizo is dedicated to genderbased violence, which as you all know, is one of the biggest challenges facing the youth of our country, universities and colleges. It is therefore apt that we dedicate this month of youth to genderbased violence. This imbizo is a build up to the launch of the GBV policy and strategy framework that the HEAidsCentre has been leading. “The higher education and training, health, wellness and development centre will on behalf of my department develop and implement a comprehensive prevention, care and support for the GBV programme across every university and college in the country,” Manamela
said. “In addition to the women’s empowerment programme that HEAIDS facilitates as part of its programme offerings, I have requested that GBV be elevated to receive particular attention in the coming months to ensure that in addition to the policy and strategy finalisation, we have visible and strong programmes at our sites. This will mean that university and college leadership and staff at all levels will be called on to support this process. As will sister government departments and development agencies.” Manamela said one of the most common forms of gender-based violence in the higher education sector was sexual harassment of staff and students. He said research showed that the victims of sexual harassment, in particular “sex for marks practices”, are often the more vulnerable among students. lillians@afrotone.co.za