Only one goal was scored during two Cosafa Cup quarter-finals in South Africa Saturday, and it gave Lesotho a surprise 1-0 victory over Swaziland. The first match of a double-header in northern city Polokwane was decided by a shootout with Zambia edging Namibia 4-3 on penalties in a showdown between former champions. Spectators will hope for more goals Sunday when South Africa face Madagascar and title-holders Zimbabwe meet Botswana in the other southern Africa championship quarter-finals. On Saturday, the small crowd who braved conditions that turned chilly at dusk, had to watch 161 minutes of football before they could celebrate a goal. A Lesotho free-kick on the halfway line was nodded into the path of substitute Sera Motabeng, who fired past goalkeeper Sandanezwe Mathabela from close range after 71 minutes. Lesotho successfully defended the lead to eliminate rivals 19 places higher in the May FIFA world rankings. Poland-based Lesotho winger Luciano Matsoso was voted man of the match and said he is dreaming of playing South Africa in the final next Saturday. “All of us in the squad dream of playing South Africa because they are a strong side and facing them would offer us a chance to see how good we are,” he said. “Beating Swaziland was not easy as they are a difficult team to break down and I sensed almost from the kick-off that one goal would be decisive.” It was the third time the nations had met in the competition with each having won once before by a 2-0 scoreline. A cagey clash between Zambia and Namibia produced few scoring chances and it was no surprise that penalties were needed to separate them. Namibia failed to score from their first two spot-kicks, handing Zambia an advantage they never surrendered and Cletus Chama converted the last of the 10 penalties to win the match. Zambian Kelvin Mubanga was named man of the match and he highlighted an obvious problem — lack of goals. “We need to sharpen up in attack before facing South Africa or Madagascar in the semi-fianls next Wednesday. “I believe we will need to score at least twice in our next match to be sure of making the final,” he said. The Cosafa Cup is an annual competition open to the 14 members nations and has been won by Zimbabwe (five titles), South Africa and Zambia (four each), Angola (three) and Namibia (one). -AFP