A MEETING between ANC officials and office bearers of the SACP, Cosatu and Sanco in the North West convened yesterday at Luthuli House in an effort to put to bed the uncertainty over the next North West premier. Afro Voice understands that Monday’s meeting of the ANC national working committee (NWC) instructed the North West provincial executive committee (PEC) to enter into a process of consultation with the party’s alliance partners on deciding who will replace former premier Supra Mahumapelo. The NWC meeting on Monday rejected the names of former North West education MEC OJ Tselapedi, acting provincial secretary Susan Dantjie and agriculture MEC Manketsi Tlhape as possible candidates to replace Mahumapelo. The NWC tasked the PEC to present one name to the ANC by the end of this week for final deliberation at the party’s special national executive committee (NEC) meeting on Monday. “The names were rejected because the PEC unilaterally chose them without consultation from the alliance partners. The PEC must go back and rethink the names and come back with a concrete proposal,” a source said. ANC provincial spokesperson Gerald Modise confirmed yesterday’s meeting at Luthuli House and that consultations with ANC alliance partners for naming the new premier had started “afresh”. “There’s another meeting at Luthuli House today of ANC officials and provincial office bearers of Cosatu, SACP and Sanco. We were advised that because of the dispute coming from the alliance partners, to start afresh,” Modise said. “But the final arbiter is the PEC.” The ANC is also floundering about on its December national conference warning to discipline party members who lodged court cases against the governing party. This comes as the NWC sank its teeth into a report of the ANC KwaZulu-Natal conference. The conference was brought to an abrupt halt when a group of disgruntled party members approached the Pietermaritzburg High Court on Friday and obtained an interdict. Sources in the NWC told Afro Voice that in the meeting emerged the view to haul the members who took the party to court before a disciplinary committee for bypassing the party’s newly established dispute resolution committee “without due process”. However, it was resolved that a process of “consultation” was preferred with branch leaders and members from the Moses Mabhida, Harry Gwala and Lower South Coast regions to iron out relations. Sources in the NWC said while the party would await the outcome of the legal challenge to the provincial conference, the ANC wanted to avoid being accused of double standards by taking party members who interdicted the conference to task while failing to discipline delegates who heckled and prevented party chairperson Gwede Mantashe from addressing the conference. “Some people said, what about those regions who were booing the chairperson? So the three regions would have to be engaged to get to the bottom of the matter,” a source said. Question marks were also raised about the role of the ANC national executive committee deployees in KwaZulu-Natal. Some have been accused of “fomenting” tensions in the region. -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@afrotone.co.za 