STORIES told, written and cast by women, are hard to come by not only in South Africa, but across the world. It was shocking yet unsurprising to learn at the launch of Universal TV crime procedural drama, The Detail, that the struggle for women was not confined to South Africa but was universal. This bit of eye-opening news was revealed at the press screening of this Canadian procedural drama series held at the intimate and posh Saxon Hotel in Sandhurst on Monday. The do was hosted by Azania Mosaka with stars The Queen actress Thandy Matlaila and her co-stars, Pabee Moganedi and Kabelo Moalusi and former Rhythm City actress Nolo Phiri in attendance. The Detail which premièred on Tuesday on Universal TV (DStv 117) brings viewers closer to how women go about solving crimes and problems in general. The series led by female actors – Shenae Grimes-Beech, Angela Griffin and Wendy Crewson proves that women can do ground-breaking TV work if given a chance and that they are as capable as males in leading productions and telling their own stories and thus influencing a generation legacy young women can look up to, follow and emulate. Judging from the first episode and seeing these women actors immerse themselves in the detail that has become the show’s title, was a realisation that women stories are as universal as those dominated by their male counterparts and if done correctly bring a way of appreciating the sheer talent that women possess and if given a chance, our film and TV industries would be able to rid themselves of the discriminatory practices that have persisted for years. Crewson led the discussions immediately after the screening of the first episode, touching on his love for South Africa and the similarities between the Canadian and South African TV and film industry plagued by issues of discrimination. “In Canada, although the issues had been there, we have since put in place a 50/50 representation of women in the industry, which has helped in minimising the risk of discriminatory practices,” she said. She said even though the detective story line had been done a million times, the fact that this was one of the first being done by women meant a lot for aspiring women across the globe. “You can’t be what you do not see. The issue of representation is still a big one and we need stories that speak to us and are done by us women. “You don’t have to be stronger, you just have to be smarter and that is something that women have always known,” Crewson said. -SIYABONGA SITHOLE|siyabongas@afrotone.co.za