THE house full sign for this year’s Soweto Marathon is up, with the organisers saying yesterday that entries had reached the 30000 mark. This continues to show that road running in South Africa is growing. The race takes place on November 4 and will start and finish at FNB Stadium for the third year running. Following huge demand last year, the race organisers increased the number of entries to 30000 from 25000 and all that was snapped before the closing date of June 30. Runners compete in 42km, 21km and 10km. Sello Khunou, chairperson of the Soweto Marathon Trust, is pleased with the response shown by runners. “The 21km was closed three weeks ago because of its popularity,” he said. “We have increased the numbers from 25 000 to 30 000 and still there was a huge demand from the runners.” Khunou also said they also increased the prize money from R220 000 to R250000 for both the male and female races. “We have made adjustments to the money for the first prize, there will also be a hot spot along the route that we have introduced for this year. “For now, those are the two changes to try to improve the finish time. With those hot spots, we are trying to get the guys to pick up the pace.” Runners last year raised their concerns about the quality of T-shirts they received when registering for the race. The T-shirts were either small in the sizes they had requested or the quality was not up to standard. This was due to the fact that they didn’t have a sponsor after Nike pulled out, but Khunou promised that they were working hard behind the scenes to get a sponsor before the race. “We had a number of complaints about the T-shirts and we have since apologised,” Khunou said. “It was not our intention. After all, getting those T-shirts we were paying for, but as you know, some things go wrong sometimes. “But we can promise the athletes that this year, we have found people who will deal with that.” Last year’s race was won by Tsepo Mathibelle of Lesotho, while Irvette van Zyl won the women’s race. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za