THE ANC Youth League in the Western Cape has called on the speaker of Parliament, Baleka Mbete, to investigate alleged misconduct by the leader of the opposition, Mmusi Maimane. Claiming that he had breached the law by being in possession of official city of Cape Town documents, the youth league also called on the ANC caucus to lay criminal charges against Maimane. The youth league said in a statement yesterday the DA leader took possession “of and used a highly confidential forensic investigative report submitted to the council to wage his political battle against the incumbent mayor (Patricia de Lille) and other councillors who are challenging the DA’s dirty tricks in the city of Cape Town”. It has in recent days discovered that the forensic report was submitted to the council at a special sitting on January 5, 2018, the youth league said. “We have been reliably informed that another confidential council report into allegations of misconduct at the city of Cape Town found that Maimane was in possession of confidential council forensic report/s. This means that the confidential report/s was in the possession of a person who is not a councillor, or official of the city of Cape Town.” Communities and ratepayers trusted members of Parliament, legislatures and councillors to serve their interests without fear or favour. “To entrench this principle, confidentiality of council affairs plays a pivotal role in securing a harmonious working relationship among all parties in council for the best interests of the people it serves.” The code of ethics for all public officials protected these principles. “Maimane’s possession of confidential documents while not being a city councillor and even before the council could debate them is a serious breach of council protocols and the code of ethics of the Parliament of the Republic of SA.” The youth league said it wanted to know how it was possible for an outsider to get possession of a confidential report into allegations of misconduct at the city of Cape Town. “Maimane clearly obtained the report to influence council business and to gain political advantage. He should explain how he came to be in possession of the report because as a parliamentarian he should know that the code of ethics for parliamentarians and officials prohibits him from having confidential council reports in his possession.” If Maimane had received the report from a city official, he should name that official. “If Maimane was not given the report by an official of the city of Cape Town municipal council, then he must have obtained it without permission since he is not a member of the city council.” The youth league claimed Maimane received about 1000 forensic reports as early as 2014. These alleged reports were said to carry damning allegations of corruption and maladministration in the city council. “If that is true, then Maimane needs to come clean and tell the nation why he tried to cover up corruption in the city of Cape Town. Either way, Maimane knows that he is complicit in a serious breach of confidentiality.” -DENNIS CRUYWAGENnews@afrotone.co.za