A PRETORIA mother is in anguish over the apparent “disappearance” of her baby shortly after she gave birth at the Stinkwater Refentse Clinic in Tshwane. Gloria Mhlongo, 26, yesterday gave a harrowing account of how her excitement turned into a nightmare. Mhlongo, from Eersterust, claims she gave birth to a live baby on May 28 but was later informed that her child had died. She said the circumstances around the birth were suspicious. She says she had a difficult delivery and the child’s head took a long time to come out. Mhlongo said a nurse had told her the baby might not survive. “When I asked the nurse what she meant, she told me she thought the baby had died while still inside my womb. I was then taken to the labour room where I delivered the baby. When I raised my head to see the child, the sister asked me what did I want to see so I lowered my head,” she said. According to Mhlongo, she was later told to get off the bed so the nurse could change the bed sheets. “I got off and balanced myself with the bed and took a sneak peek at the child. The nurse went to put the child on the scale and shouted to tell me that it was a boy. I said OK, then she took the child and walked off to another ward,” she said. Mhlongo said she was later told that she was discharged and could go home. “I was confused and called my mother to tell her that now there was no child and they were just telling me to sleep on my tummy and that I was going to be discharged. “I didn’t understand what was going on because the nurse was not communicating with me whether the baby was dead or alive,” she said. When her family arrived at the hospital, attempts by her mother to get answers to what had happened to the baby proved fruitless. They eventually left, only to return to the facility the next day to seek answers again and found the sister who helped her deliver the baby was off duty. “The person who assisted us told us that the sister had written on the file that there was a miscarriage. The sister told us they were going to check the storeroom where they kept babies who had died as the people who collect corpses only came on Fridays. They came back and told us they couldn’t find the baby,” she said The distraught woman said if her baby had indeed died, she wanted the body so that she could give him a proper burial. The Gauteng health department said it would conduct an investigation into the matter to get to the bottom of the allegations. “This is not the first baby snatching incident to take place in Tshwane. About seven years ago, a baby boy disappeared from the Dr George Mukhari Hospital in Ga­Rankuwa in Tshwane and has never been found,” the DA’s Abel Tau said. He called for CCTV cameras and better security at the health institutions. The latest allegations come amid claims that the country’s health facilities were collapsing but Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi has denied this while acknowledging that there were challenges. LERATO DIALE leratod@afrotone.co.za