A MAN is facing a murder charge after he shot and killed his 14-year-old son outside the Norman Fred Clark Secondary School in Ennerdale. The man, 50, who is set to appear in court today, claimed he mistook his son, Luyanda Tshabalala, for a hijacker and shot him. The police said according to the information they had, the man had taken his son to school in the evening to attend late classes. He then fell asleep in the car while waiting for Luyanda. “The boy came back and knocked on the passenger window of his father’s vehicle,” Khoza said. “The father, who was asleep in the car with his firearm on him, got scared by the knocking, he pulled out his firearm and shot in the direction of the person who was knocking. “He realised that it was his son after he had fired the shot.” Luyanda was taken to hospital but died on the way. Gauteng education spokesperson Steve Mabona said pupils in the boy’s class had their examinations postponed to a later date due to the traumatic incident. Mabona said the police needed to assist so that there was an element of closure for the family and the school. He said the department did not want to go into details of what might have transpired as there was a police case opened. He said a psychological team was there and will be present today to offer more support to the school and pupils. Gauteng education MEC Panyaza Lesufi had earlier visited the school to offer his condolences. In a Facebook post, the school said: “It is with great sadness that we have to announce the tragic passing on of our representative council of learners deputy chairperson Luyanda Tshabalala. “The principal, staff, auxiliary workers and all pupils have been touched by this remarkable young man. We express our sincere condolences to all his family and friends. Rest well, young man.” Meanwhile, Khoza confirmed that police were investigating a case of abduction and rape of a 16-year-old matric pupil at the same school. “A case has been opened with the station. The pupil was abducted by about three males and, according to the time given, she was abducted about 2pm on Tuesday,” he said. lillians@afrotone.co.za