MANTSOPA local municipal mayor Mamsie Tsoene has refused to resign from her position, saying residents of Ladybrand who marched recently for her to step down could come to another conclusion. She also called on residents not to burn the municipality following alleged threats that is if she did not resign, the municipality would burn. Residents were demanding service delivery such as roads, water and sanitation as well as jobs. They also accused her of ensuring that her friends and family received tenders that were available in the municipality. Residents said they were not confident in her abilities to develop the municipality. In their memorandum, they said they wanted improved services and job opportunities, among other things. Tsoene said she received the memorandum of demand from the residents who marched to her offices and gave her only seven days to respond. She said should residents be dissatisfied about certain things, they were more than welcome to come to her office and address the issues but not call for her resignation because that would create a precedent. “Indeed, I received the memorandum and at the time they were marching we had just started patching potholes and putting in pipes to ensure that there was a water supply to the areas where there was no water,” Tsoene said. “They have the right to demand what they need legally and we are fast-tracking the services as per our mandate and we are ready to meet the residents and give them answers.” She said even though they wanted to meet residents on Monday to give them answers, people did not come. “On the issue of me giving my friends and family tenders, I want to clarify this. I am not the one who selects the companies to be the municipal service providers. There are processes that are being followed and there are also officials who are in charge to select the qualified companies,” the mayor said. She said all the municipalities had financial crises on their hands but their situation was not bad because they still managed to provide service delivery. “Residents should know that burning buildings is not a solution. Our offices are open and those who would like to meet cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) officials, not to be addressed by us, are free to do so. We do not have any problem at all with them talking to Cogta officials.” In May, Ficksburg residents also marched for better service delivery and demanded that the mayor step down. They were demanding better roads, water and jobs. They also went on the rampage, looting shops belonging to foreigners on the day of the march and never wanted to be addressed by anyone from Setsoto municipality but wanted Cogta to address them. -BECKER SEMELA|beckers@afrotone.co.za