Western Cape High Court Judge Siraj Desai says he is trying to wrap his mind around why convicted triple murderer Henri van Breda committed such a heinous crime. ” In this case, I am searching for that human factor that will turn the judgment, maybe just a reason for him to have acted this way, as I am concerned that Van Breda acted out of wickedness for this grotesque crime,” the Judge said on Tuesday. Desai made the comments on day one of sentencing proceedings against Van Breda. The judge confirmed that he will deliver his final sentence on Thursday at 10 am. Meanwhile, the defence delivered its mitigation arguments and has urged the court to be mindful of Van Breda’s youthfulness and his first offender status when sentencing. However, the state has rebutted the defences claim saying his age cannot exempt him from being sentenced. ” The crime committed was abhorrent. He had no social and economic issues and was coming from a loving family, so he cannot be exempt,” said state attorney Susan Galloway. The state added that the fact that Van Breda did not call the emergency services when his sister was still alive and injured, showed that he is not remorseful. Last month Judge Desai convicted Henri van Breda of three charges of murder and one of attempted murder. Van Breda had pleaded not guilty to three counts of murder, one of attempted murder and defeating the ends of justice that were committed in January 2015. He handed himself over to the police in June 2016 and was released on bail the following day after being charged with killing his father Martin, 54, mother Teresa, 55, and brother, Rudi, 22. His sister, Marli, sustained serious head injuries which left her with amnesia and unable to testify at the trial. He told the court that his family were attacked by a masked intruder wielding an axe. The court found that he showed a peculiar lack of empathy for his family on the night of the gruesome murders and instead phoned his girlfriend. Desai also found there was no credible evidence of intruders, dispelling his evidence in chief that on the night in question the crime was committed by a person wearing a balaclava. The judge said in the absence of any intruder, the only reasonable inference was that the accused wanted to mislead the police and the court and staged the scene. The court also found that the accused had sufficient time to tamper with the scene of the crime. -AfroVoice Reporter