THE case of the three former South African Revenue Service (SARS) officials was postponed to August 24 in the Pretoria Regional Court for defence lawyers to apply for part B of the docket. The state declined to disclose parts B and C of the docket to the defence, stating that the earliest it could share the information with the defence would be at the next court appearance. The trio appeared in court where the judge released them on a warning. In April 2018, Ivan Pillay, Andries Janse van Rensburg and Johann van Loggerenberg were summoned to court on charges related to the alleged bugging of the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) offices in 2007. The accused were previously released on bail conditions of not communicating with any of the state witnesses and that they should inform the investigating officer with a notice should they want to leave the country. They are facing two counts of corruption and unlawful interception of communication within SARS. Pillay and Van Rensburg face charges of unlawful interception of communication. The two accused in 2007 allegedly unlawfully and intentionally procured Helgard Lombard to intercept communication in the offices of the Directorate of Special Operations (DSO) and those of the NPA without permission. Pillay was a general manager of the enforcement and risk division of SARS. Van Loggerenberg was the special officer in the office of the general manager of the enforcement and risk division of SARS. Van Rensburg was the line manager of the Special Projects Unit of the National Research Group. Pillay and Van Loggerenberg are also facing charges of corruption for allegedly hiring Helgard Lombard to spy on the Scorpions and the NPA at their offices in 2007. The NPA allegedly authorised Lombard to instal the equipment. According to the state, the duo, while in the employ of SARS, “directly or indirectly and unlawfully gave or agreed to give Lombard unauthorised gratification, to wit, cash in the amount of about R100 000, whether for the benefit of himself or for the benefit of another person, to act in relation to the exercise, carrying out or performance of Lombard’s powers, duties or functions in the scope of Lombard’s employment relationship”. “Conversations among members of the DSO during October 3 to November 6, 2007, were monitored, recorded and transcribed without an (authorisation) from the designated judge issued in terms of the (Regulation of Interception of Communications and Provision of Communication Related Information Act), the recorded conversations among members of the DSO were handed to both Pillay and Van Rensburg at their insistence,” the indictment stated. -KEITUMETSI MOTLHALE|keitumetsim@afrotone.co.za