THE NUM and Numsa have called on Eskom to reconsider its decision not to increase employee wages. Numsa general secretary Irvin Jim said the board of Eskom was stubborn and arrogant. “We will exhaust all options available to us legally before resorting to a strike,” he said. The unions will picket tomorrow at all Eskom power stations with the biggest one at the headquarters of the power utility at Megawatt Park in Johannesburg. “We have scheduled pickets during lunch time in different parts of the country where workers will demonstrate their disgust with Eskom for their provocative stance,” Jim said. He said Eskom needed to come to the party with the intention of negotiating. “We are not greedy as unions, we know that negotiations are give and take. Workers are demanding that Eskom put an offer on the table. “We are not reckless, however, workers demands must be met or we are warning the public that there will be switch-off (strike),” he said. Jim said they were prepared to meet with the board in unlocking the impasse. He said the 0% was an insult to workers. “We have declared a dispute of interest and have followed all the process up to the CCMA,” he said. Meanwhile, the general secretary of NUM, David Sipunzi, said if they did not get satisfaction from the board they would continue seeking a meeting with Minister of Energy Jeff Radebe and President Cyril Ramaphosa. “We are not happy with Eskom and all the unions have put aside political affiliations for the interest of the workers,” Sipunzi said. “We demand that management meet with all three unions with speed to resolve the impasse between Eskom and the unions and give workers their deserved wage increases.” Sipunzi said that with the economic situation in the country, Eskom needed to come with an offer that would better the lives of the workers. He also said that the Independent Power Producers (IPPs) agreement that was signed by Radebe was going to cripple the workers. “The IPPs are going to drain Eskom of income and we must ask questions about who is behind these projects,” he said. Last week Eskom said it was prepared to engage with the unions but three unions – Numsa, NUM and Solidarity – walked out of the negotiations, saying the Eskom representatives were negotiating in bad faith. -TIISETSO MANOKO|tiisetsom@afrotone.co.za