Proteas bowler Lungi Ngidi did not disappoint in his debut Indian Premier League (IPL) campaign after he played an important role in Chennai Super Kings’ title win. Ngidi finished with 11 wickets in seven matches after returning home midway through the tournament following the sudden death of his father. Having been instrumental in his team’s success, especially in the challenging subcontinent conditions, Ngidi now wants to use that experience when he tours Sri Lanka with the Proteas next month. “The wicket was a lot better than I expected,” Ngidi said yesterday. “That was pleasing, that’s not saying it will probably be the same in Sri Lanka but to be able to play in those kind of conditions in terms of heat and humidity was worthwhile.” The 22-year-old, who claimed four wickets for just 10 runs against the Kings XI Punjab, added that he made most of the opportunity he was given to prove himself. “I had not played much in the first few games and when you get the opportunity you want to prove yourself. “I just made the most of it. The crowd was massive but I feel like I was able to block that out when I was bowling and it didn’t seem to affect me. It was a good experience.” Playing alongside international players like MS Dhoni, Ngidi was pleased to have been trusted with the new ball and didn’t disappoint. “I have gained a lot of confidence as a player and in my abilities as well. “Knowing that someone like Dhoni trusted me with the new ball and when we needed to get a breakthrough he gave the ball to me, that gives you confidence. “A lot of confidence coming from that. In terms of bowling tactics, I spoke to coach Ottis Gibson before I left. “The main thing he said was just to focus on the basics and that seems to work for me.” “I have always said a high-pressure situation is where you find out how really good you are as a cricketer, so playing in those situations was really exciting as well. “Your line and length is very crucial there. “Whichever way the ball is swinging, I just made sure I was attacking that fourth stump and pretty much hitting the top of the stumps, making the batsman play and putting him under pressure. “It is not easy to execute, you have to keep on it.” nevillek@afrotone.co.za