TELECOMS giants MTN and Vodacom are scrambling to get a piece of the market in Ethiopia after the east African country said it would be opening formerly state-controlled industries to private enterprise. MTN yesterday told Afro Voice it was “excited about the potential opening up of the Ethiopian market as it would be a natural fit for MTN’s existing and extensive pan-African footprint”. But MTN’s biggest competitor, Vodacom, will not stand idly by and insisted it will pursue business possibilities in Ethiopia. “Vodacom has said on many occasions that Ethiopia is an attractive market so it follows that there would be interest. Naturally, this is dependent on what might become available and if it fits within our investment parameters,” Vodacom said. MTN said that it had long held the view that the Ethiopia market offered great opportunities for growth, both for Ethiopians and for the businesses that serve them. “MTN’s licence to provide valueadded services in Ethiopia was recently renewed and we continue to maintain an office in Addis Ababa. Ethiopia presents many exciting telecommunication opportunities and we look forward to further discussions with that nation’s authorities on potential partnerships and opportunities,” it said. The ruling EPRDF coalition in Ethiopia, in power since 1991, has long supported a state-controlled economy, rejecting any form of market liberalisation. But a surprise announcement on Tuesday by Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed, who came to power in April promising a “new political beginning”, has given rise to hopes of real economic reforms in the country of 100 million people. The ruling coalition said on Tuesday that Ethiopia needed reforms to sustain rapid growth and boost its exports. “While majority stakes will be held by the state, shares in Ethio Telecom, Ethiopian Airlines, Ethiopian Power and the Maritime Transport and Logistics Corporation will be sold to domestic and foreign investors,” it said. The policy is “to enable Ethiopia-born citizens living abroad who’d long wished to work on the development of their country and also to enable foreigners who have the knowledge and foreign currency, to play a positive role in our growth”, the coalition said. Ahmed is under pressure after touring the country promising to address grievances and strengthen political and civil rights. A serious challenge – much like in South Africa – is youth unemployment. About 40% of the population is under 15 while nearly three million people enter the labour market every year. Massive state-led infrastructure projects have driven economic growth of nearly 10% a year for the past decade. – with Reuters \THELMA NGOMA