Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane said she is surprised by the Portfolio Committee on Justice and Correctional Services’ announcement that she has failed to attend an inquiry into her fitness to hold office. Mkhwebane said this is the first time she misses a meeting with a committee since she took over the position from her predecessor Thuli Madonsela. She was speaking during a wide-ranging interview on Afro Worldview on Wednesday where she was asked why she did not attend a meeting in Parliament which was scheduled for Wednesday. Committee Chairperson Mathole Motshekga announced to the committee that he had received a letter from Mkhwebane a day before (on Tuesday), informing the committee that she would not attend the meeting as there was “a family emergency which she couldn’t re-arrange”. According to the committee statement, it wanted to ask her about the appointment of staff in her office and talk about her fitness to hold office. Mkhwebane said she received a letter on Friday from Motshekga’s office informing her to appear in front of the committee on Wednesday to discuss the rules in terms of the Public Protector Act which were tabled with the National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete and the policy on appointing a special advisor. Over the weekend The Sunday Times reported that Mkhwebane appointed Linda Molelekwa as her special adviser, and subsequently revoked the appointment after Molelekwa could not produce an academic qualification, which is a requirement for the position. Mkhwebane said Mbete was informed about Molelekwa’s appointment and that she was surprised to learn that she was supposed to attend an inquiry on her fitness to hold office. “I thought that was for their own deliberations. I have never refused to appear before Parliament, and I have cooperated within the constitutional requirements to appear before the committee.” She said she is only supposed to appear in front of the committee only twice a year, once to present strategic documents and to present the annual performance plan of the institution. “I am still trying to find a way to work closely with the committee,” said Mkhwebane. Mkhwebane said she was also surprised that Motshekga has not shared her letter which she wrote to him in April explaining to him why some delegations and roles were removed from the Deputy Public Protector. “We need to focus on the delivery of my services to the public. Am I failing in any way? no,” she said. Watch full interview below:  -Afro Voice Reporter