Eastern Cape African National Congress (ANC) chairperson, Oscar Mabuyane has dubbed the Ndebele Appeals Panel Report into the 8th provincial elective conference held last year as ‘incoherent’. The report by Appeals panel chairman Sbusiso Ndebele who conducted investigations into the disputed elective conference was released yesterday. Speaking to news channel Afro Worldview on Tuesday, Mabuyane said that the ANC NEC, which held a meeting in Irene yesterday, discussed the report in March where it discovered that the report was not consistent. “The report is incoherent, the body of the report and its recommendations were two different things, so to speak, ” he said. Mabuyane said that there was something “funny” with the report which was the bases of the reasons why ‘the ANC had to send the Report away’ and opted for a political option in resolving the matter. A group of disgruntled Eastern Cape ANC members went to court yesterday in a bid to force the NEC to implement a recommendation from the Ndebele appeals panel. Following the conference, disgruntled members took the party to court over the outcome of the conference. Mabuyane was elected as the party’s provincial chairperson during the conference which was marred by chaos. Violence erupted at the conference, leaving several delegates injured. The Ndebele Appeals Panel Report recommended for the re-run of the elective conference and for the provincial executive committee elected at the conference to be suspended. Some delegates had claimed then that non-members attempted to participate in proceedings while other legitimate members had been barred from the conference. Mabuyane on Tuesday further said that people were blowing things out of proportion as things were not as bad as it is reported in the Eastern Cape. He said that the ANC was dealing with the ‘anarchy’ and the members who are attempting to destabilise the party. “We are dealing with that as the Provincial Executive Committee, we have been going around meeting regions we are getting along, the PEC, every region, even those that had a different view in the conference are now participating in the PEC,” he said. -AfroVoice Reporter