THE Police and Prisons Civil Rights Union (Popcru) says it wasn’t consulted on the new crime intervention strategy by Police Minister Bheki Cele. Cele recently announced drastic steps to be taken by the police service in the wake of escalating crime – with a focus on cash-in-transit heists. He said more police officials would be visible on the ground, especially at hot spots of criminality. Meanwhile, Popcru spokesperson Richard Mamabolo said there was too much focus on the police’s top structure while the police on the ground were not receiving any form of support. “The budget that has been going to the national office has been bigger than the one that goes to provinces like the North West and Northern Cape. “We have been calling for resources to be sent to the right people and those who have got experience to help at the ground level. “None of our members know about this decision, none of the unions or stakeholders are aware of this strategy,” he said. Mamabolo said it could not have a relationship with the police service where decisions taken were only communicated to them through the media. “With the previous police commissioner we also had a lot of decisions taken while we were not consulted,” he said. “Popcru will have a national march on July 13 to mark, among other things, our long-held concerns over the fact that we have less than 200000 police officials having to look after a population of 51 million. “Our demand is for a single policing service, the end to police killings and the restructuring of the police service,” he said. However, Cele said they would be introducing the execution of a high-level intervention going forward. “Our intention is to combat all crime, among others, cash-in-transit heists, car hijackings and gang violence. “We will ensure high density visibility of uniformed police officials on foot and in vehicles, supported by the police service air wing, as well as continuous cordon and search operations,” he said. Cele was joined by national police commissioner Khehla Sithole and senior police officials. The union will also be embarking on a march next month to the Union Buildings to highlight the concerns raised by its members, especially in the correctional services. -TIISETSO MANOKO|tiisetsom@afrotone.co.za