ANC Deputy Secretary-General Jessie Duarte said she rejects with contempt what she calls unprovoked and uncouth ambush on the Treasury Deputy Director General Ismail Momoniat. Duarte said EFF Deputy President Floyd Shivambu’s comments bordered on extreme racism, sow disunity and are an anathema to forging socially cohesive society. Duarte is one of many South Africans who have reacted to Shivambu utterances which he allegedly made during Portfolio Committee on Finance meeting on Monday. The committee on Wednesday unanimously condemned Shivambu and the nature of his questioning of Momoniat. According to reports, he referred to Momoniat as “Non-African” and that he is undermining all Africans working at the Treasury including the Minister Nhlanhla Nene, his deputy Mondli Gungubele and Director-General Dondo Mogajane. Duarte said she has worked with Momoniat for over four decades and while she may differ sharply with some of his views, on the country’s economy, she could never stand aloof and allow him to be asked to leave a meeting because he is Indian. “The blatant racist and narrow nationalist stance of the EFF is perhaps the only positive element of the irrational tirade by Shivhambu. “His rant raises significant questions about the level of some Members of Parliament‘s comprehension of their responsibilities, to protect and defend the Constitution, particularly, the assertion that we build a non-racial, non-sexist and united Democratic South Africa,” Duarte said. She said Momoniat is known to have been part of the underground struggle which afforded the Shivhambus of this world, the freedom to express their opinions albeit from a non-informed position. “Comrade Momo is not and never will be racist and I say this without fear of contradiction, Momo is well known for showering every person with accolades or disdain in equal measure, irrespective of colour, class or creed.” ANC in Parliament also slammed Shivambu calling his comments highly derogatory towards South African Indian community and bordering on racism. “Comrade Ishmail Momoniat is a tried and tested cadre of the congress movement, who earned his stripes in the struggle for the liberation of our people when it was not fashionable to do so. “Comrade Momoniat has always conducted himself as a consummate professional dedicated to serving his country through his work as the Head of Tax and Financial Sector Policy at National Treasury,” ANC Chief Whip Jackson Mthembu spokesperson, Nonceba Mhlauli said. Meanwhile, Shivambu has refused to retract his comments on Momoniat and denied referring to him as a non-African. EFF has also come out to support Shivambu and his comments, saying Momoniat was micromanaging the department. -Afro Voice Reporter