We need to find out if Thuma Mina is the right tune for us to be dancing to THE popular media portraiture of Ramaphosa as a premium grade leader, with the requisite capabilities to steward in a better life for all in SA, distracts from the possibility that Ramaphosa, who was sworn in as President, just more than 100 days ago may not be an A-grade president. Ramaphosa’s forgettable performance as Deputy President, which was without distinction, has been conveniently forgotten by journalists in the political after-glow of their climatic anti-Zuma fetishism. Ramaphosa was unremarkable as second in charge and no amount of praise absolves him of having been part of whatever shortcomings can be attributed to the Zuma administration. Earlier this year, I wrote in one my columns, that I would not, like many others, change my tune and become a sudden praise-singer of Ramaphosa, but would assess him on his words and deeds. Now 100 days into the Ramaphosa administration, I am disappointed by both word and deed. The Ramaphosa new dawn is hardly A-grade strategy. This rhapsody of hope, the 100 day daze of the Ramaphosa era, is not the first-grade manifesto of a president with a whale of great ideas or clarity of policy and purpose. “It is a new dawn. It’s a new day, it’s a new life for me, ooh and I’m feeling good.” These Nina Simone lyrics, are unlikely to be the joyous anthem of ordinary South Africans 100 days into the Ramaphosa era. But analysts are feeling good. So is former apartheid leader FW de Klerk, a vocal Ramaphosa praise-singer. De Klerk says “SA is in good hands now”. The tainted thumbsup of an apartheid leader is a worrying signal indeed. Their narrow use of market sentiment as the supreme yardstick to measure presidential success exposes a political analysis penned on partisanship. The authentic measure of a president’s performance does not vest in any market. Markets are morally vacant, almost narcissistic. With the rand at a six-month low, business confidence post-Zuma, is a choreographed affair, the premeditated outcome of a Ramaphosa victory. But it is a fickle and fleeting measure. The true measure of a president’s success is whether he or she fundamentally and meaningfully alters the everyday material conditions of the most vulnerable in society, the dispossessed, the marginalised, the landless and labouring masses, for the better. On this score Ramaphosa has demonstratively failed. The speed talk on radical economic transformation has ceased in the omnipresence of forces outside the governing party. For now, Ramaphosa’s New Dawn appears distinctly anti-poor and out of accord with the party’s December resolutions which offered meaningful pillars for fundamental transformation of the economy and society. A symbolic signal of a lapse in political leadership and ideological meander, was how the motion of land expropriation without compensation was championed and carried by the EFF, not ANC in Parliament. This moment was captured in a newspaper cartoon by Brandan Reynolds which in declaring Malema as “the ANC’s head of policy” was a cruel caricature of Ramaphosa’s leadership. The SA Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu), critiques how Ramaphosa’s New Dawn has ushered in a poverty minimum wage, legislation that infringes on workers’ right to strike, a 1% VAT increase and a reduction in spending on essential services. The union federation decries the job creation talk of Ramaphosa by pointing out that “the proposed outsourcing of electricity generation to independent power producers amounts to handing over public assets to white multinational companies, threatening thousands more jobs in Eskom”. Saftu says: “What the President is doing to workers of this country is the same as that undertaken by Margaret Thatcher in Britain. He will go down in history as someone who
was once a hero of the working class but who once he crossed the class floor launched the most savage attack on workers.” The reverberation of Marikana cries out loud. The regular beat of the landless and labouring majority, better captured in the poignant strains of Hugh Masekela’s Stimela, is a tune Ramaphosa seems to have lost. “In the golden mineral mines… 16 hours or more a day. For almost no pay…deep, deep down in the belly of the earth…we are told they think about their lands, their herds that were taken away from them. With a gun, bomb and the teargas and the cannon.” But Ramaphosa does not appear to be listening. Just 100 days and Cosatu is already objecting to “the heightened offensive against the working class” under Ramaphosa’s administration. But the President seems pleased with his own performance, scoring himself eight out of 10. Really. As he blows his own trumpet, key provinces tear apart, in a crisis of ANC hegemony, harmony and leadership. Every day, the crisis of protest politics, the truest survey of public opinion, grows louder. The real work of a president is to listen to the people and put the people first. Thuma Mina, a charming underscore will strike a popular note as the ANC’s election anthem, but it is nothing more than a beautiful distraction, for it will not alter or better the material conditions of the poorest of the poor. Many speak of the long game of Ramaphosa. For me, he is playing the wrong game. Kim Heller is a writer and political commentator -Kim Heller