CON men are targeting desperate unemployed teachers to swindle them out of thousands of rands with promises of getting them permanent positions in private schools. The scammers operate in various parts of the country and only use their surnames to identify themselves. Hopeful and eager to get employed, Alexia Gumbi said she was almost duped into paying a man who called her claiming to be from a local private school in the Free State and had a post available. “There is a man called Mr Mafaladijo. He said I must give him R3000, with R1 500 in advance. He says it’s a permanent post at a private school,” she said. “I told him I didn’t have the money at that moment, then he said I must at least give him R500. He said I must do the transfer at PEP (store).” Contacted by Afro Voice yesterday under the guise of being a job seeker, the man whom Alexia had spoken to, asked which province the reporter was based in. He then claimed to have a primary school post available at a private school in Gauteng for a life orientation teacher. He said he had an interview slot open for Wednesday and would send all the details after payment was made within an hour after the call. “Pay me whatever money you have. Even R500 is okay. Please go to the nearest shopping complex and deposit the money as soon as possible and let me know as soon as you do,” he said. “Also send your CV and qualifications so I can prepare you for the interview on Wednesday.” He claimed there were other people lined up for the same post but that if the reporter made the payment, employment was guaranteed. He claimed to be one of those in charge of hiring people at the school. He said the documents should be sent to his email address, hiresolve11@gmail.com. Another unemployed teacher said there was a Mr Mabaso in KwaZuluNatal who demanded that “prospective” employees pay R2 700 for a guaranteed permanent post at a local private school. Basic Education Department spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga cautioned unemployed teachers from being easily duped by scamsters and look out for suspicious conduct from people claiming to offer them employment. “We understand that people might be desperate for jobs but once anyone demands money in exchange for a job, it becomes inappropriate,” he said. “No one should pay when looking for a job.” -LILLIAN SELAPISA|lillians@afrotone.co.za