THE DA contrived to oust Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille, advocate Dali Mpofu told a full bench of the high court in Cape Town yesterday. Mpofu, who is representing De Lille in her legal tussle with the DA, told the court yesterday the party tried to fire De Lille through fraudulent means. “They failed in February and they are going to fail now. They can’t do that because she still enjoys the majority of the council and her rights vested in her by the people of Cape Town. “All we are saying is they have chosen an illegal route. They need to canvass council members and convince those members to vote in favour of the vote of no confidence,” Mpofu said. The Western Cape Magistrate’s Court recently suspended the DA’s removal of De Lille as mayor and temporarily reinstated her pending the outcome of yesterday’s hearing. De Lille is also challenging the constitutionality of the DA’s recall clause, which the party adopted at its congress in April and used to fire her in May. While De Lille remains mayor, the DA has stripped her of all her executive powers, which effectively renders her a ceremonial mayor. “We should not be sitting here listening to something that is clearly contrived. We are here for one reason only, the DA’s contrived attempts to get rid of Patricia de Lille. The court must send a message,” Mpofu said. Mpofu said once De Lille cleared her name, she would voluntarily resign from the DA. “That’s it. It’s simple. She will go, if she is cleared. She will pack up and go. She will resign as mayor if her name is cleared,” he said. Mpofu argued the DA failed to remove De Lille through a no-confidence vote and as a result invoked a clause specifically adopted at the DA’s conference to oust her “The reason why we say this is really based on mala fides and an attempt to pull the wool over the eyes of the public, the court, herself because those two methods have been tried and they both failed for various reasons,” he said. De Lille said yesterday of her court appearance: “I have always put my faith in the judiciary. I have always believed in the judiciary to give me a fair hearing. Today is no different.” -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@afrotone.co.za