THE government says it will continue to work with the steel industry towards averting job losses in the sector. Measures have been put in place to save the steel industry from collapsing. This emerged when officials from the Department of Trade and Industry (DTI) briefed Parliament’s portfolio committee on trade and industry on the status of the steel industry and interventions that government is deploying to assist the industry stay afloat. Thandi Phele, chief director of Capital Equipment and Metals, reaffirmed this, saying both demand and supply measures have been deployed to assist the entire value-chain to cope with the global steel glut. Steel and Engineering Industries Federation of Southern Africa (Seifsa) economist Marique Kruger wrote earlier this month that the decrease in metals and engineering sector production output in April, following a positive trajectory during the early months of the year, was very disappointing. Kruger said Seifsa was deeply concerned because “a vast majority of the sub-sectors performed poorly, recording negative output levels”. After adjusting for the sectoral weights, the Stats SA data indicated that production for the M&E sector decelerated to -7.7% y/y in April. Monthon-month, the sector dropped -11.8% in April compared with March. The acting chief director of primary minerals processing at the dti, Umeesha Naidoo, told MPs that since the onset of the crisis in 2015, the government had established a task team that intervened to save the steel industry from threat of closure and loss of capacity. The task team is comprised of officials from the DTI, the Department of Economic Development, national Treasury and the Industrial Development Corporation. “Following the establishment of the task team, there are numerous short to medium-term measures that have been put in place to support the steel industry,” Naidoo said. “These include an increase in the general rate of customs duty on primary steel products to 10% and safeguard measures for a period of three years on hot-rolled coil and plate products. “Secondly, there are tariff increases on a range of downstream products and the deployment of rebates where primary steel products are not locally manufactured. Tariff increases are deployed to respond to the challenges and support the industry as a whole.” She said further work is being undertaken with SARS and the International Trade and Administration Commission (Itac) as imports of steel products continue to threaten the viability of the steel industry. Naidoo also said there was an agreement on a set of principles for flat steel pricing in South Africa that is priced appropriately to ensure that steeldependent industries are competitive. This is also to ensure the upstream steel mills remain sustainable. Phele discussed the demand side measures where a number of steelintensive downstream products have been designated for local content and production to take advantage of public procurement and expenditure. Monitoring and evaluation of the designations needs to be improved to fully realise the impact of this policy tool. “The government has also established a R1.5bn Steel Development Fund to support key downstream steel sectors and sub sectors,” Naidoo said. “Downstream industry is encouraged to take advantaged of this fund to upgrade, introduce innovative production methods and raise the overall competitiveness to ensure long-term sustainability,” Phele said. The department also reflected on the US Section 232 duties and the impact thereof on the affected industries. MPs heard that the DTI will continue advocacy efforts with its US counterparts focussing on trade relations. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@afrotone.co.za