ACCESS to land will open up the mainstream economy and afford the youth of South Africa a share in the country’s riches, Minister of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation, Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, said at the launch of Youth Month in Soweto, yesterday. She urged the youth attending the launch, hosted by the National Youth Development Agency (NYDA) at the Hector Pieterson Museum, to take part in the economic struggle as well as discussions on land, which she said were interlinked. The annual June 16 commemorations will be held in Soweto at Orlando Stadium on the day. Dlamini Zuma also motivated the youth to make submissions to Parliament on the issue of expropriation without compensation. “We must hear your views on this matter, you must be heard,” she said. Dlamini Zuma also encouraged young people to be active in the agricultural and tourism sectors and to participate in the value chain of these sectors which include agro-processing, emphasising that this could only be achieved once the land matter was resolved. The minister said that this participation was vital as Parliament would look at the inputs for perspective on what South Africans think. She also stressed the importance of gaining skills and education. “You must make sure that this skills revolution that we are talking about must happen and you are the ones that must make it happen,” she said In the crowd was Busisiwe Shabangu, who was part of the June 16 uprising in 1976. She told Afro Voice that this time of the year was painful because the change she has seen is not what she had imagined. Although she acknowledged that things had changed and that freedom was achieved, these did not resolve the challenges faced by the youth of the day. “I thought at this time, our education system would be better. We fought for equality in education and this has still not happened. The standard of education is not improving. We are not yet free,” she said. She said that she would never forget that day as it was traumatic. “The memory relives itself, I make sure that I attend events commemorating the day in my area to celebrate our achievements,” she said. “Our grandchildren should have the opportunity to learn from us who are living history books.” -HLONI MASHIGO|hlonim@afrotone.co.za