The Minister for Public Service and Administration Ayanda Dlodlo condemns the decision of the Public Servants Association (PSA) on its intentions to embark on a strike next week. PSA has vowed to cripple the economy when it embarks on a strike on Monday. The strike is expected to lead to major disruptions. This comes after wage negotiations allegedly broke down with the government. “We are concerned that the planned strike action is unprocedural as it is in complete violation of prescribed processes. The in-principle agreement, according to the regulations of the PSCBC, will be on the table for a period of 21 days, in which time labour unions can make a final consultation for a mandate to sign. “This period of consultation is still unfolding and as such, we are in a protected phase until the 19th of June 2018,” Dlodlo said. The Department said that PSA served it with a 7-day notice to strike on Tuesday which disregards the ‘standing protocol and procedure for a 21-day window to allow all public sector unions at the PSCBC to either accept or reject the offer’. PSA National manager, Reuben Maleka said there will be two parallel strikes that PSA members will be embarking on as from Monday. One from public service and the other by SASSA employees. Both the demonstrations will be over salaries. Maleka said that all PSA members who were giving essential services were discouraged to participate in the strike. Maleka said the government has not given them the satisfactory explanation on their failure to meet their demands. “It worries us that they keep on saying there is no money”. He added that government only puts down an offer which they are forced to take or leave. “In fact, I would say that the real negotiations on the salaries of public service has not happened this year.” The Public Service and Administration Department said it is currently studying the implications of the PSA strike to establish the possible impact on service delivery. About 230 000 members belonging to PSA, over 100 000 of them are an essential service and are legally precluded from going on strike. The department said essential services such as healthcare, policing and other uniformed services are not expected to experience disruptions. -Afro Voice Reporter