CASH-STRAPPED state oil company PetroSA has been hit by another scandal implicating a number of officials in bribery, fraud and corruption involving procurement deals. The Hawks in the Western Cape have confirmed that the elite crime unit has launched a probe into alleged fraud and corruption at the state petrochemicals producer. “There’s an investigation that’s ongoing and the charges relate to fraud and corruption,” Hawks spokesperson Capt Philani Nkwalase said. Nkwalase said investigations were at an early phase and that the suspects were alleged to have claimed grants from the sector’s training authority by submitting claims for ghost pupils. PetroSA spokesperson, Tumoetsile Mogamisi told Afro Voice yesterday that it was brought to their attention that a complaint was laid at a police station implicating officials in “taking bribes in exchange for jobs”. “Our forensic investigation team looked into the matter and spoke to the complainants, who said they were advised by the police not to speak on the matter. “As a result, our investigation could not go ahead but PetroSA will cooperate with the police investigation,” Mogamisi said. He said no one had been suspended over the latest allegations. These latest allegations came in the wake of the axing of a number of senior executives at PetroSA in the past 12 months. Many of them were probed and then fired for poor business performance. Among those axed from the utility were chief executive Nosizwe NokweMacamo, vice-president Andrew Dippenaar and chief financial officer Lindiwe Mthimunye-Bakoro. PetroSA signed a R5.1bn deal with the Russian state-owned company, Rosgeo, during the 9th Brics Summit in Xiamen, China. The deal was signed in the presence of former Minister of Energy Mmamoloko Kubayi and the agreement involved the development in the exploration areas of blocks 9 and 11a off South Africa’s south coast. Observers said it would be interesting to see how the Hawks investigation pans out, especially for the fact that the entity had been rocked by a number of dodgy deals amid claims of attempted capture of PetroSA. Some analysts have called on the Central Energy Fund (CEF), to which PetroSA reports, to be tough on the cash-strapped entity. PetroSA is responsible for exploration for gas and oil while the Strategic Fuel Fund is the guardian of SA’s strategic crude oil stocks. Both entities report to the CEF. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@afrotone.co.za