TEMBISA-BORN master spinner DJ Shimza has become the third local DJ to score an Ibiza residency in the past two years. The man known for his annual oneman show in his township of Tembisa is set to kick off his residency at Privilege nightclub every Thursday from June 7 until October. His mentor Black Coffee and former label mate at Soulistc Music Culoe De Song are the two local DJs who have had Ibiza residency in the past. Speaking to Afro Voice ahead of his departure, the African Woman hitmaker said he was excited for the opportunity as he will be performing at one of Spain’s biggest nightclubs. “I will be playing for a different audience which I have only been exposed to for the past two years and I feel like that was a nice trial run as I got to see what they like and don’t like and now the people there feel like they are ready for me to play there every week,” he said. Having risen to become one of South Africa’s leading dance DJs, Shimza said this opportunity is ideal for his global brand as a DJ. “This is going to give me a lot of growth in terms of the music that I play, the style of music that I make – not that I am going to change my music but this will somehow push me in a different direction regarding my growth. It’s going to help me grow on a more global scale in terms of making music and understanding the global market.” Fans of the star DJ will not be badly affected by his departure as he will occasionally make his way back into the country for scheduled performances. “Though the residency starts this week and runs until October, I will be back home here and there for my oneman show on the June 30 as well as for the Durban July Boomtown Marquee appearance,” he said. Shimza believes South African DJs are able to compete with the rest of the world as
already local acts are able to produce quality dance music with an international feel. “For many years, DJs and producers have been releasing their music overseas and collaborating with artists and producers abroad. Labels have been pushing and releasing our music,” he said. “The doors have been opened for us and people are more receptive to our music and more people are listening to our music, making it easier for us to tell our story.” For those coming after him, the star DJ urges them to be patient and work hard at their craft. “It takes a lot patience, hard work, heartbreak, closed doors, sucking up. Just be patient until you get that opportunity to showcase who you are and what you can do/give/deliver,” he said. -SIYABONGA SITHOLE