SOUTH Africa’s chronic and dangerous passenger rail system will be a major talking point in Parliament this week with Transport Minister Blade Nzimande scheduled to meet the transport portfolio committee. The Mining Charter, the exact targets that mining companies are expected to meet in the 2017-18 financial year, which will come up before the mineral resources committee on Wednesday, will be another controversial topic MPs will tackle on the committee circuit this week. Nzimande and the interim board of the Passenger Rail Agency of SA are scheduled to appear before the portfolio committee tomorrow. They will be quizzed on the challenges facing the entity Nzimande is also due to speak about board vacancies in his department and the late tabling of Prasa’s annual report. Tomorrow the SABC, another struggling state-owned entity, will appear before the communications broadcasting portfolio committee to respond to allegations made by unions last month. On Wednesday, the standing committee on public accounts will hold two hearings, starting with the State Information Technology Agency, which in a previous hearing gave evidence to Scopa of communications between former employees and the jailed Boeremag leaders. In the afternoon Scopa will delve into the affairs of the Department of Water and Sanitation. The South African Social Security Agency is scheduled to brief the Social Development Portfolio Committee on Wednesday on the progress it is making in implementing an order by the Constitutional Court in connection with social grants. The Department of Social Development will also report to the Portfolio Committee on its fourth quarterly financial and performance for the 2017-18 financial year. On Thursday, the standing committee on finance will hear from South African Airways about its quarterly report, while the national Treasury will make a presentation about responses to the Carbon Tax Bill hearings. Also on Thursday, the national Treasury and IEC will brief the ad hoc Committee on the funding of political parties on the political Party Funding Bill. Several policy debates are scheduled to take place in the National Council of Provinces this week. -Afro Reporter