Singing sensation  Shekinah was the biggest winner during the South African Music Awards(SAMAS) which were held at Sun City on Saturday night. Shekinah bagged the Best Album of the Year, for her Album, Rose Gold, Best Female Artist of the Year and the Best Newcomer of the Year. While accepting the award for the Best Female Artist of the Year where she was nominated alongside, Busiswa, Siphokazi, Lady Zamar and Simphiwe Dana, Shekinah dedicated the award to female empowerment. ‘Shout out to every single female on my team, we are killing it, and let us continue killing it as women from South Africa,” she said. Other winners of the night were Mafikizolo for, Duo/Group of the Year, Prince Kaybee for, Male Artist of the Year, while the Record of the Year went to Destruction Boyz FT Benny Maverick & Dladla Mshunqisi for Omunye. The Awards were also graced by President Cyril Ramaphosa who presented the lifetime awards to legendary South African singers and composers Steve Kekana, Mbongeni Ngema and the late Ishmael Hlatswayo, popularly known as Spokes H. ANC President Cde @CyrilRamaphosa & Minister of Arts & Culture @NathiMthethwa presented Lifetime Achievement Awards to Dr Mbongeni Ngema, Steve Kekana, Spokes H (accepted by his mother, Mama Thenjiwe Mfene) and the International  Achievement Award to Shashika Mooruth #SAMA24 pic.twitter.com/pCpBIepNAT — African National Congress (@MYANC) June 2, 2018  Ramaphosa congratulated and thanked the artists for their contribution to the music industry.”We celebrate your excellence. We want to say thank you for the music, thank you for your talent, thank you for keeping us entertained as a nation and thank you for giving meaning to our lives” he said. “Music is not just something we listen to. It is a spirit that lives and thrives within us, breaking through barriers and identities, and further uniting us with it’s power.” ANC President Cde @CyrilRamaphosa #SAMA24 pic.twitter.com/LqAOBape6t — African National Congress (@MYANC) June 2, 2018  Tonight is the night that you’ve been waiting for. It’s the #SAMA24 Awards and it’s going to be a party! These are the categories which will be announced tonight. Are you ready? #SAMA24 pic.twitter.com/hpEtuViLcT — The SA Music Awards (@SAMAs24th) June 2, 2018  -Afro Voice Reporter