Every day I imagine communities and a rainbow nation that is widely viewed as a model of what works, able to attract the best and the brightest from across our country and the world. I imagine a South Africa that is able to provide opportunity for all, particularly our youths as our future leaders. When I ask myself how all of the above can be achieved, I conclude that an effective strategy should concentrate on three key but diverse areas: infrastructure, innovation and education. That is why in Gauteng we are investing enormously in education to help end the cycle of poverty for children, families and communities. At a time when high-quality education is most needed for professional success, the province’s priority is to create learning opportunities, graduate more pupils and develop better-prepared leaders of the future. The provincial government has identified education as a priority and a societal matter, as articulated in the National Development Plan (NDP). The NDP states that: “The single most important investment any country can make is in its people. Education has an intrinsic and instrumental value in creating societies that are better able to respond to the challenges of the 21st century.” As member of executive council (MEC) for education in Gauteng who is working hard with my colleagues to implement this strategy, I am appalled and galled by burglaries, break-ins
and vandalism at some provincial schools. A theft ring is preying on schools, stealing computers and other electronics. The thieves
are not just stealing property, they are stealing our children’s education and frustrating
our strategy of infrastructure, innovation and education. And the people who buy stolen
goods are supporting the results of thievery and its criminal profits. While we are working incredibly hard with schools, the police and security experts to try
to reduce burglaries, we are cognizant that schools are places of learning, not fortresses.
Every cent spent on security or repairing damage is a cent not spent on books or equipment. Thieves have stolen hundreds of computers and other electronics with a combined value of
thousands of rands during the past year. From computer equipment to portable devices, there seems to be no limit to what property thieves are pilfering. These days, thieves are not only breaking into school properties to steal computer acquirements, portable devices and more but also canned food and other products, which are meant for the school’s feeding scheme. I was recently shattered, angry and emotionally devastated by the arrest of four women in Mamelodi in Pretoria, who were caught selling canned food and other products which were meant for the school’s feeding scheme. What irked me more was the fact that the acts were committed by people the department had employed to look after school pupils. It angers me to see the people we have entrusted to take care of our kids can do things like this. There have been several break-ins at schools and food from feeding schemes was specifically being targeted. We lost a security guard who was killed during one of these break-ins. So why do I say the break-ins and thievery is frustrating our strategy of infrastructure, innovation and education. The NDP wants 11 million more jobs to be created by 2030, the labour-intensive manufacturing and export sectors need to be expanded, money has to be allocated to key infrastructure projects as an enabler for job creation, so the quality of education and skills development is crucial and ownership of production should be less concentrated and more diverse. Just as our former and late president Nelson Mandela said” “Rhetoric is not important. actions are.” The opening line of the NDP says “Our Future – Make It Work”. It is time to put the NDP to work. Investing heavily in road, buildings and all kinds of infrastructure is central to our nation’s
development. Having the right core infrastructure is what levels the playing field on all social and economic fronts. That is why I have dreamt of a province and a country where every kid has a laptop, an educational IPad and teaching is electronically based. I know it costs money, but if we’re saying information and communication technology is going to be a central part of everyday life, we need to make sure our children are properly equipped to carry on learning and interacting in a productive way. I subscribe to early childhood education to ensure every child has access to opportunity
– beginning with the foundation of early childhood education – and broadband to guarantee
universal, affordable, high-speed internet access for all. But the vandalising and school break-ins and stealing foodstuffs meant for pupils paints a galling picture of the calibre of persons we are. At the helm of the anti-apartheid struggle were issues of fundamental education. Hence
stealing from our schools is a direct insult to those who fought hard to build the kind of
schools our children enjoy today. You see the essential requirements for a country to become truly developed is a well-educated population. But the string of burglaries, break-ins and vandalism causes considerable disruption to teachers and children. The pupils are deprived of educational tools and traumatised by having someone break into their classroom or school administration building. In some cases essential coursework and important records are lost, lessons are disrupted and children lose out. Our efforts to track down those involved in school crime are ongoing to bring offenders for
these crimes to the courts. We are also working with schools and education authorities to
try to improve security in schools. Help us catch offenders who are damaging the education of all our children. Repairing or replacing the stolen items come from the school’s budget, which means other things have to give way. The Gauteng department of education and police are committed to reducing school crime. -Panyaza Lesufi is Gauteng MEC for education