AN INTENSIVE search has been launched for three men who shot and killed a 10-year-old boy and wounded his father, a police captain, during an attempted armed robbery at KTC in Guguletu. Another child and a woman, who were also in the car, escaped unscathed. Police said at about 2.30pm on Friday three suspects shot at the vehicle in which the police captain, his son, a woman and another child, were travelling in. The police officer went to pick up the woman who had R60000 in her possession. He was about to take her to the bank to deposit the money when he was surprised by the robbers. Three armed suspects came running from the side of the building and blocked the exit. The police officer sped off with the suspects firing randomly at his car with the two children and the woman inside. The 10-year-old boy was fatally wounded and the police captain sustained wounds to the chest and arm. The car was riddled with bullet holes but the police officer managed to drive to Nyanga police station for help. The officer was taken to hospital. Police have launched a search for the suspects and are investigating a case of murder, attempted murder and attempted armed robbery. Police spokesperson Sgt Noloyiso Rwexana said: “An off duty police member was shot and wounded at KTC in Gugulethu on Friday while driving. The member was transported to a medical facility for treatment. In the same incident, a 10-year-old boy in the vehicle with the captain was also shot but fatally wounded. Another child and a woman, who were in the same vehicle, escaped unharmed.” Meanwhile, five men accused of kidnapping, robbery and murder will appear in the Athlone Magistrate’s Court today after they killed a 21-yearold man who they suspected of stealing a vehicle in Browns Farm. The five men, including the owner of the stolen vehicle, allegedly kidnapped the young man on Thursday last week. His body was later found with multiple stab wounds to his upper body in Thabo Mbeki informal settlement and the vehicle, a Toyota Avanza, was also found burnt close to where the young man’s body was found on Friday. Rwexana confirmed that the five suspects were expected to appear in the Athlone Magistrate’s Court today. She said one of the five suspects allegedly took his cellphone. “According to a report the suspects, including the owner of the vehicle, assaulted and stabbed the man and drove away with him in a white Toyota Avanza. “The owner of the vehicle, aged 35, allegedly took the victim’s cellphone.” One suspect, aged 21, was arrested in Browns Farm on Thursday night and four others were arrested on Friday in Lower Crossroads. Police management applauded the investigating officers for the swift arrests and ensuring that those who continued to take the law into their own hands were brought to book. -VINCENT CRUYWAGEN AND NADINE FORD-KRITZINGER nadinef@afrotone.co.za