THE worst-dressed stars’ gong belongs to rappers Riky Rick and Da Les, who were both caught offside on the South African Music Awards red carpet on Saturday. Known for his fashion sense, Riky Rick, who sported a mask ala Mzekezeke throughout the night, was the hobo of the day, while his compatriot, Da Les, was the madala (old man) of the week. There was nothing fashionable nor sensible in how they chose to style themselves on the big day of the local music awards. As qualified fashionable people say, nothing beats a clean and well-fitting suit to make a man look like a million bucks. Among those who qualify for this title are Tresor, who was awe-inspiring in a black tuxedo. The previous day, he was the talk of the red carpet with an African inspired military and dictator suit. First day was dominated by traditional looks with the likes of Thabsie, Tribute, Birdie Mboweni and many others leading the pack. I hear Skolopad fainted and had to be taken to hospital. Minutes earlier she was the red carpet wonder with her usual semi naked look. Many other celebrities were also in semi naked creations among these was Boity Thulo, Nandi Mngoma in a Ryan M Keys design. Somizi’s daughter Bahumi was another of the big reveal gang with her white dress. Clearly she has learned lessons from daddy’s associates and peers. Rapper Nomoozli failed to deliver the sizzle in a golden Ryan Keys outfit which looked more like a bar of gold than a fashionable item. For a change, rapper Gigi Lamayne was a breath of fresh air in a Bubu Boutique fish robe on the first day of the awards on Friday. Things took off smoothly on the first night of the awards, with it taking a dramatic twist when it became clear that there needed to be a way to clear the lines as quickly as possible. There was no space to work or move for either the stars or the media, which resulted in a delay of more than an hour of the live broadcast . Clearly something needs to be changed to allow for a smooth flow of people into the vicinity and the venue. President Cyril Ramaphosa’s appearance, which needed security clearance, made things worse as it took more than an hour for the show to get under way. -SIYABONGA SITHOLE|siyabongas@afrotone.co.za