Minister of  Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs and former ANC Treasure-General Dr Zweli Mkhize has denied allegations that he facilitated a loan deal for an oil company from the Public Investment Cooperation(PIC)during his time as the party’s Treasure-General. Mkhize said he was taking a legal advice on the allegations that he facilitated the deal during his tenure as the party’s Treasure-General. This comes after The Sunday Times reported that a law firm alleged that during a meeting held at Mkhize’s office at Luthuli House, it was agreed that a “fund-raising fee” would be shared amongst Mkhize and other ANC supporters, with R4.5-million kickback allegedly being paid to Mkhize for helping the oil company Afric Oil get a R210 million loan from the PIC. Mkhize said the allegations that he was to receive kickbacks as a facilitation fee were ridiculous and malicious fabrication. According to the paper, Mkhize denied all knowledge of the agreement saying”At no point did I play a role in facilitating a loan from the PIC for a company called Afric Oil” Mkhize took to Twitter to deny ever facilitating any corruption and ever seeking any facilitation fee. “I have never facilitated the said loan negotiations nor have I sought any “facilitation fee” from the said company. “It is extremely unacceptable and mischievous for my name to be dragged into a matter that I have nothing to do within this manner,” Mkhize said. I have never facilitated the said loan negotiations nor have I sought any “facilitation fee” from the said company. It is extremely unacceptable and mischievous for my name to be dragged into a matter that I have nothing to do with in this manner @SundayTimesZA #ZweliMkhize — Dr Zweli Mkhize (@DrZweliMkhize) June 10, 2018 Mkhize slammed the paper saying it was attempting to sell papers by tarnishing his name, which was nothing but sensationalism which lacks substance. This kind of journalism is not only sensational but also unprofessional. In my view it is an attempt to sell copies of the Sunday Times based on an enticing headline which is nothing but sensationalism which lacks substance @SundayTimesZA — Dr Zweli Mkhize (@DrZweliMkhize) June 10, 2018 -Afro Voice Reporter