Its all systems go as the ANC in KwaZulu-Natal has confirmed its readiness to host a provincial elective conference on the weekend. Speaking to the media on KZN provincial task team (PTT) coordinator Sihle Zikalala confirmed that, 686 audited and verified branches will participate in the conference set to be held at BhekuZulu Hall at the University of Zululand. “The convening of the provincial conference is in accordance with the decision of the National Executive Committee, National Working Committee which gave us a go ahead as per the time frame set,” said Zikalala. Three Regions have been disbanded in KZN which are Moses Mabhida, Harry Gwala and Lower South Coast and their RTT will attend the conference as non voting delegates @afroworldview @AfroVoiceLIVE pic.twitter.com/7WcqFZGUug — Phathisa Mfuyo (@thisamfuyo) June 7, 2018 He also added that delays in hosting the conference was done in order to ensure that all issues brought forward by branches were properly addressed. During the briefing, NEC member Nocawe Mafu said that the party’s highest decision-making body was pleased with the preparations carried out ahead of the conference. “We have discussed the issue of KZN in detail and have reached consensus and agreement that they have met all constitutional requirements. So the conference is going ahead,” said Mafu. Chairperson, Gwede Mantashe is expected to deliver the deliver keynote as ANC President Cyril Ramaphosa was meant to make the address will attend the G7 meeting in Canada. Meanwhile, convener of the interim ANC KwaZulu-Natal leadership, Mike Mabuyakhulu said that the party was focused on emerging as a united organisation following the conference. “If anyone thinks we were here to pursue the agenda of factions that is not correct. We were here to address the interests of all members,” he said. Last year the Pietermaritzburg High Court declared the KwaZulu-Natal ANC 2015 elective conference unlawful and void after a group backing former provincial chairperson and former Premier Senzo Mchunu approached the court seeking to nullify the results of the 2015 conference which saw Sihle Zikalala emerge victorious. -Afro Voice Reporter 