AN INVESTIGATION is under way to determine the cause of a near fatal aeroplane crash in the KwaZulu-Natal Midlands yesterday morning. Rescue and emergency personnel had to use the jaws of life to wrench the pilot out of the wreckage of the light aircraft before he was airlifted to hospital. Emergency services spokesperson Robert McKenzie said the incident occurred at a farm near Dargle Valley, Howick. “The aeroplane crashed into the side of a hill,” McKenzie said. When paramedics and rescuers arrived they had to climb down the steep and rocky hill to get to the aircraft. Assisted by local farmers they were able to reach the plane. “The jaws of life had to be used to cut the crushed frame of the aircraft away from the pilot, who was trapped inside. Paramedics worked together to treat the critically injured pilot of the single seat aircraft. “The pilot was stabilised at the scene before being transported to hospital by helicopter for continued medical care,” McKenzie said. This is the fifth light aircraft crash in KZN alone this year. Last month, a Johannesburg couple died when their plane crashed near Vryheid in northern KZN. Claus Keuchel, 83 and partner Maxine Frisch, 84, had flown to Vryheid for a convention In January, two aircrafts crashed. The first involving a SAPS helicopter and the other a small aeroplane that crash-landed at Illovo Beach on the KZN south coast. No fatalities were reported in either case. Meanwhile, a search for Newcastle pilot Johan Fourie, 61, who went missing after taking off from Newcastle Airport flying to St Lucia last week continues. According to the authorities, his aircraft had last registered over the sea near the iSimangaliso Wetland Park. A relative, Hennie Koertzen, said they were still hoping Fourie would be found alive. “It’s been more than seven days but we are still hoping for a miracle.” In March, the South African Civil Aviation Authority’s director of civil aviation Poppy Khoza said there had been a marked decline in the number of private aircraft accidents in the past three years but more still needed to be done. Khoza said the accidents took place in the general aviation area and had nothing to do with commercial scheduled operations. She said there had been a 50% reduction in aircraft accidents since the 2016- 17 financial year. -SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO|sibongisenim@afrotone.co.za