WESTERN Cape Premier Helen Zille has issued Cosatu provincial secretary Tony Ehrenreich with an ultimatum to apologise in writing for remarks made about her and her teacher son – or face litigation. The demand was made in a letter dated May 8 and sent to Ehrenreich by Zille’s lawyers, John MacRobert Attorneys. The lawyers said that Zille and her cabinet members have tolerated many attacks from Ehrenreich and Cosatu and “have grown thick skins” required to do so. “However, the latest defamations of our client and her son are not only false but are malicious to a degree that is simply not acceptable and have caused significant damages to our client.” In the document, Zille’s lawyers said that in a memorandum on a Cosatu letterhead and dated 27 September 2017, Ehrenreich stated that she “forced the education department” to give her son laptops to run a a programme. According to her lawyers, Ehrenreich had also claimed in the document that Zille and former president Jacob Zuma had “set their sons up” in business. Ehrenreich had used a loudhailer to broadcast these sentiments to a crowd. “Some of his comments were subsequently reported and published on multiple media platforms and in the social media, Zille’s lawyers said. “These words are wrongful and extremely defamatory of, damaging and injurious to, our client and her good reputation and respected standing in the community,” they said. Zille’s lawyers said that the words were intended and understood by those to whom they were published, both directly and through innuendo, that she forced the Western Cape’s education department to procure laptops for her son. According to the letter to Ehrenreich: “These assertions are devoid of truth. “Our client did not force the procurement of the tablets on the WCED or any other provincial department, and neither she nor her son received any payment arising out of the October 2014 matric math revision workshops run by her son, a Cosat teacher in Khayelitsha at the time, free of charge.” -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN