THE South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) is to spread its wings and attract more workers who do not belong to unions. The labour federation spokesperson, Patrick Craven, says 2 641000 workers, which consists of 16.7% of the workforce in the country are not unionised. He said the people who they were targeting included zama zamas, taxi drivers, car guards, street vendors, car washers, home workers and waste pickers. “They are generally not members of trade unions and are unprotected by labour laws. “Saftu is committed to organising the workers who are unorganised and yet have the greatest need for unions because of their low pay, job security and difficult working conditions,” he said. Craven said such workers in most cases were ill-treated and exposed to much danger with limited or no protection. “They do hard and unhealthy work at unsocial hours with no proper equipment or protective clothing. “They fall squarely into the category of informal workers, yet have become key players in the different industries,” he said. Craven said waste pickers were also not receiving much-needed support from the government while they were at the centre of reducing the pollution of the environment. “Saftu fully supports the demand for cooperatives but also calls for pickers to be permanently employed by municipalities. “One core function is waste disposal, which is precisely what waste pickers are doing and what the municipalities should be doing,” he said. Craven said the days of discriminating against workers based on the type of work they were doing was over. “Saftu wants to build a network with grass roots organisations to fight back against the neoliberal attacks by monopoly capital and the ANC government,” he said. He said other issues they were going to fight for included the VAT increase and e-tolls as well as for free education. General secretary Zwelinzima Vavi said nationalising the lives of ordinary people, especially workers, was going to change South Africa for the better. “The priority is to create jobs and raise living standards, where wealth is equally shared and goods are made and services delivered for the benefit of all South Africans,” he said. -TIISETSO MANOKO|tiisetsom@afrotone.co.za