THE ANC’s efforts to stem the tide of court cases against it from disgruntled party members was dealt a further blow yesterday as it placed its scheduled regional conference in Gauteng on ice, owing to internal discord. Aggrieved party members from the West Rand gathered outside the venue for the governing party’s special national executive committee (NEC) in Irene yesterday to vent their dissatisfaction over the party’s preparations for its five regional conferences due this month. ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule was at pains to insist that party regional and provincial structures were united amid the rising toll of conference-related disputes. He said the ANC would take a decision to strongly urge party members to lodge their grievances had the party national dispute resolution committee before seeking relief in court. “There is no disconnect, the ANC is a democratic organisation, the ANC is a liberation movement and the ANC allows its members to raise whatever they want to raise and that’s why, step by step, you see us stabilising branches, provinces,” Magashule said “The court cases – we are dealing with them, because we said to our members, exhaust internal processes. “We are at a stage where we are going to say to members who have not exhausted internal processes and decided to go to court that it stops here. “We are educating people politically, we have time, we have patience that’s what the ANC is all about. There will be a decision to say it stops here,” Magashule said. He said of the regional conferences scheduled to take place in Gauteng this weekend: “There were some people who marched here from the West Rand, we have taken their grievances into account and we have decided to postpone all regional conferences in Gauteng that were supposed to take place this weekend.” The ANC’s KwaZulu-Natal conference was brought to a halt after disgruntled groups of party members approached the high court in Pietermaritzburg to have it interdicted. While Magashule did not give a date to which the conference would proceed, he said the party’s national dispute committee would continue to iron out relations in the province. “Let’s allow the internal processes of the ANC to take their place,” he said. A group of disgruntled Eastern Cape ANC members went to court yesterday in a bid to force the NEC to implement a recommendation from the Ndebele appeals panel. Magashule said: “We will await the outcome of that case.” The Eastern Cape conference‚ dubbed the “festival of chairs”, erupted in violence and a group of delegates stormed out of the venue. The ANC’s Free State conference is also facing a fresh challenge from 28 branches who demanded that the provincial executive committee be disbanded after its election last month. The ANC also discussed the process of finalising the names of candidates for the position of the North West’s premier. -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@afrotone.co.za