Parliament’s Portfolio Committee on Justice and Correctional Services demands a full explanation form Public Protector Adv Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s after she missed a scheduled meeting on Wednesday. Mkhwebane was expected to brief the Portfolio Committee on the appointment of a Special Advisor to the Executive Authority and was also expected to hold discussions on a request to institute an inquiry on her fitness to hold office. “We need a full explanation from the Public Protector on why she did not appear before the Committee and why the Deputy and other senior members did not appear as well. We will send a letter to her office,” said the Chairperson of the Portfolio Committee of Justice and Correctional Services, Dr Mathole Motshekga. Mkhwebane also reportedly requested that the meeting be rescheduled to either 21 June or 5 July. The DA’s Glynnis Breytenbach claims there was no intention from Mkhwebane to attend  parliament’s meeting. “The fact that there is no delegation shows that there was no intention by the Public Protector of appearing here. There is no reason why the Deputy couldn’t be hare to appear before the committee. The Public Protector has no regard for this committee,” Mkhwebane repotedly sent the committee a letter on Tuesday afternoon informing them that she could not attend ‘due to a family emergency’ however did not specify why her deputy could not attend. The Public Protector has been under fire for the South African Reserve Bank’s review application matter where she announced that she would not oppose the Bank’s review application. In her report, she had initially called for the constitutional mandate of the bank to be changed. Opposition parties have since called for Mkhwebane to step down. She was also lambasted for her report on the North West Estina DairyProject which was released earlier this year but failed to link any politicians in the matter. However, Mkhwebane has since announced that she would now investigate former Free State Premier and now ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule for his possible involvement in the Estina Dairy Project. -Afro Voice Reporter