CONFUSION over the proposed new mining charter is again creating uncertainty in the industry. Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Matashe is likely to face a grilling in Parliament today by the National Council of Provinces when delivering his budget vote. Industry players were surprised yesterday at reports that the charter, already stalled by numerous court interventions and a source of conflict between the previous mining minister and mining companies, could be finalised tomorrow. Reports quoted Deputy Mineral Resources Minister Godfrey Oliphant, speaking at the junior mining indaba in Johannesburg on Tuesday. But Mantashe is on record as saying a summit will first be held at which all stakeholders will be given a last chance to make inputs to the document. He had already stalled the process by a month to consult further with mining communities across the country. In fact, his last community meeting was in Newcastle, KZN, only last Thursday. “This process has afforded us an opportunity to reach out to all stakeholders and receive inputs from communities that will contribute in shaping the charter,” said the minister at the time, adding, “Before we present the charter to the Cabinet and gazette it, we will convene a summit to allow all stakeholders to comment on the final product that came out of the community consultations.” No date for the summit has been advised. The department yesterday confirmed it was “unlikely” that the charter would be unveiled tomorrow. DMR spokesperson Nathi Shabangu told Afro Voice yesterday that a stakeholder summit would definitely be convened. “The finalisation of the charter will emanate from the summit and from there will be taken to theCabinet,” Shabangu said. Shabangu said a date had not been set but the minister had committed to some time this month. Observers speculated on problems within the ministry. “Clearly something is happening internally. The minister and his deputy seem to have issues. These conflicting statements signal something is wrong and it’s not a good sign for investors,” one analyst said. In March, the Gauteng North High Court took a decision in favour of the Chamber of Mines on the controversial “once empowered, always empowered” clause in the charter, saying companies do not need to “top up” their empowerment levels if blacks sold their shares, thereby lowering the company’s BEE level. The DMR has appealed. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@afrotone.co.za 