PRESIDENT Cyril Ramaphosa told the elite G7 meeting in Canada at the weekend that SA had a number of attractive sectors in which to invest. They included mining, oil and gas, shipbuilding, agro-processing, tourism and financial services, he said. “We have taken a decision to accelerate land reform, including land redistribution and ensuring security of tenure for the rural poor. South Africa has entered a new era in which our economy occupies centre stage. “Business confidence and investor sentiment is improving and the government is responding with a dynamic and enabling business environment,” Ramaphosa told delegates. Ramaphosa said SA was on a path of renewal and growth. “We have established several special economic zones and industrial incentive programmes to encourage investors to take up opportunities,” he said, adding that the country was removing the constraints that have held the economy back. “We anticipate a new wave of investment in our economy and in our region over the next few years, and we encourage Canadian companies to join that wave and to reap the rewards of investing in a country and a continent on the rise.” He quoted a January report that said SA is regarded as a “hot emerging market” with lucrative opportunities for both foreign and domestic investors. Ramaphosa said Moody’s had revised SA’s economic outlook from negative to stable, signalling improvement. “The revised outlook conveys the message that SA is politically and economically stable and is becoming more attractive to potential investors,” he said. Ramaphosa reiterated that the government was working with urgency to guide the economy towards a more sustainable growth trajectory and to restore South Africa to investment grade status. “Foreign direct investment is a critical driver of economic growth for both developing and developed economies. Greater capital inflows generate greater trade flows, and with it the opportunity for a country like SA to derive greater value from its mineral, agricultural and other resources,” he said. Ramaphosa said the government would shortly be finalising the new mining charter in consultation with the industry, labour, affected communities and other stakeholders. “This will provide clarity on how we will balance the imperatives of growth, sustainability and transformation. SA and Canada are major global mining nations,” he said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@afrotone.co.za