THE Office of the Health Standards Compliance (OHSC) said its findings that only five out of 696 healthcare facilities, which includes hospitals and clinics, complied with its norms and standards cannot be used as an indication that the healthcare system was in a shambles. The organisation has moved to clarify findings contained in its inspection report for the 2016-17 financial year. The figures came from the health facilities it had inspected, mostly in the Eastern Cape and Limpopo provinces. The OHSC has hit back at media reports saying the findings cannot be used as an indication that the healthcare system is in a shambles. It said the report found there was “some improvement in certain areas, stagnation and decline in other areas”. CEO of the OHSC, Dr Siphiwe Mndaweni, yesterday moved to clarify the findings by her office explaining how she arrived at the findings. Mndaweni denied the healthcare system was on the verge of collapse, despite the perception by many experts in recent times. This after heavy criticism was levelled at Health Minister Dr Aaron Motsoaledi recently over the collapse of the healthcare system, a narrative he says he cannot challenge as he is not aware of which scientific yardstick was used to arrive at the conclusion. “A healthcare system that is in a shambles is one that is in complete disarray. However, we cannot sit here and say that everything is fine – it isn’t the case – but it is also important that the findings are interpreted correctly. There are issues that need to be taken care of,” she said. The CEO said while there were improvements, there were areas that needed urgent improvement. Mndaweni said it does not mean that facilities that scored below 80%, which is considered by the office a distinction, were not compliant or that services were not being provided to the public. She said it simply meant there were areas that must be improved in those facilities. Mndaweni said some of the common problems found in facilities that scored low centred around management and leadership among others. A total of 696 facilities were inspected during the 2016-17 financial year with 851 inspections conducted. leratod@afrotone.co.za -LERATO DIALE