THE Western Cape MEC for education, Debbie Schäfer, yesterday posted a R10000 reward for information that could lead to the arrest and conviction of those responsible for armed attacks at four schools. The robberies were all committed after school. Teachers and staff in all incidents were threatened at gunpoint and robbed of personal items. School ICT equipment was stolen and in one case a vehicle was hijacked on the premises. In all four incidents, the situation had left staff traumatised and in fear for their safety. The schools affected are Ummangaliso Primary in Site B, Khayelitsha, Intshayalelo Primary and Lwandle Primary in Lingelethu West and Vukhukhanye Primary in Gugulethu. Schäfer said: “I am just grateful that no pupil or teacher has been fatally harmed during these attacks. “The Western Cape education department has provided additional security at the schools as well as trauma counselling. However, this will not prevent another attack from happening at other schools. It is not yet certain if the attacks are related but there is a clear indication that our schools are being targeted for specific reasons and at a certain time of the day.” Schäfer said she had posted a reward and called on communities to come forward and provide details of those responsible for the robberies. “That is why, today, I am issuing a reward of R10000 for information that could lead to the arrest and conviction of these individuals. “The reward will be shared if there is more than one person who provides evidence that results in a conviction and if more than one person provides the same information, the reward will be given to the first person who comes forward.” The reward will be paid in cash and the anonymity of the informant will be secured. Schäfer said the education department was not a security agency and could not investigate and make arrests but they were determined to do what they could to assist in securing convictions to prevent similar attacks at the schools. She, along with the head of department, Brian Schreuder, had engaged with the city of Cape Town which had offered the services of its Special Investigations Unit (SIU), which had recently been re-established by the city. “We are aware that the SAPS is overloaded and this will assist them in processing any evidence that we receive. “All information will be fed to them. We are grateful for the city’s offer to assist in this regard,” Schäfer said. -NADINE FORD-KRITZINGER|nadinef@afrotone.co.za