ORGANISERS of the cancelled Soweto International Jazz Festival, International Arts Solutions (IAC), claim to have lost more than R15m in artist fees and other costs related to the four-day music festival. The festival, which was called off at the 11th hour at the weekend, was scheduled to take place at Soweto Theatre between June 13 and 16. It is reported that the concert ran into serious problems when the organisers failed to obtain a joint operations permit for the staging of such an event. Among those who had come to perform was US singer Deborah Cox, Charlie Wilson, New Orleans artist Yette Summer and locals such as Zamajobe Sithole, Lady Zamar and Ernie Smith. IAC general manager Nolan Baynes said she and her funders had invested more than R15m in the festival. “We deeply regret the loss of the economic impact this festival was due to have on the local community. We privately invested close to R15m. The festival was due to employ 150 local musicians and 300 local suppliers. All our suppliers were from Soweto to a cost of R4.5m (security, cleaning staff, fencing staff, stage, sound and catering services plus many more),” she said. “We had 22 vendors set up. We also had an event mentorship management programme which had engaged with 50 students from the Soweto Skills Academy.” Baynes also said a process of refunding music fans was already under way with everyone who had bought tickets to be reimbursed fully. Joburg Theatre, which runs Soweto Theatre, has since distanced itself from the failure, saying it had advised the organisers of the need to apply for the joint operations permit. Acting general manager for Soweto Theatre, Vincent Motau, said the permits were the responsibility of the organisers. “The logistics and permits from the joint operations committee are the responsibility of the event organiser. The Joburg City Theatre offered to assist but the offer was not taken up,” he said. Motau said in terms of the Safety at Sports and Recreational Events Act 2/2010, section 6 events that fall within the ambit of the act must be submitted to the office of the national commissioner of police six months in advance for the categorised risk. -SIYABONGA SITHOLE|siyabongas@afrotone.co.za