Minister of Social Development Suzan Shabangu and the South African Social Security Agency(SASSA)have warned Social Grant recipients against a fake SMS which instructs recipients to re-register their social grants because cash pay points will be fully phased out in August 2018. SASSA said the contents of the SMS were not only misleading but also cause unnecessary confusion and panic amongst beneficiaries, hence a call to grant recipients to ignore the message. The message reads:  “All Sassa recipients .please you have to re-register yourself for Sassa payments. From 1st of June. There is will be no pay points anymore. Each 1 has to apply by post office or a bank of your choice. So please collect application forms by the office from the 1st of June to take to bank or post office your choice. If you do not re-register you will not get paid in August or thereafter. Please share with all state pensioners. Thank you.” Sassa Spokesperson Paseka Letsatsi said contrary to what the SMS says, beneficiaries do not have to re-register for their grants; however, they were requested to swap their old Sassa cards for the new card by the end of September 2018 at any Sassa offices, paypoints or selected Post Offices. “Furthermore, SASSA would like to clarify that cash pay points will be gradually reduced (not fully phased out as alleged in the SMS). “Where a PayPoint is within a 5km radius of a Post Office, the Post Office will take over payments for that pay point,”Letsatsi said. Letsatsi said beneficiaries could also choose whichever method of payment that they were comfortable with. These include deciding whether their money is deposited directly into their personal bank account which includes Post Bank or they can use their Sassa cards to withdraw money at ATMs selected retailers. “Should a beneficiary choose to have their grant deposited directly into their personal bank account they should go to the SASSA office where they registered their grant and request for an Annexure C form, which must be completed by their bank of choice and returned to SASSA.”Said Letsatsi. He said beneficiaries should also contact Sassa toll-free line on 0800 60 10 11 or alternatively visit any Sassa office if they ever doubted the veracity of any message which purports to be from the agency. -Afro Voice Reporter