The resumption of wage talks between Eskom and organised labour tomorrow is expected to be a tense affair as angry trade union leaders lashed out at the power utility’s attempts to blame the unfolding load shedding crisis on acts of sabotage and intimidation. As Eskom went into overdrive this weekend to contain the fallout over load shedding, unions accused Eskom of using the industrial action to mask its leadership failures and financial challenges, describing these attempts as “unfounded and misleading”. NUM president Piet Matosa lashed out at Eskom for saying last week’s bouts of load shedding experienced were caused by acts of sabotage by unions. He said unions couldn’t be blamed for Eskom’s coal supply shortages. “We were told before there would be enough electricity. We only marched to Megawatt Park. We are not sure why is there a sudden shortage of electricity,” he said. Matosa said negotiations between unions and Eskom would resume this week. “Following our meeting between the unions, Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan and the Eskom board, we are happy that the 0% offer is off the table. “Negotiations will resume on Tuesday and we’ll allow our negotiating team to continue,” Matosa said. Numsa said workers were being used as a scapegoat to cover up for Eskom’s financial woes. “Let us not forget that in March there were reports that Eskom was planning load shedding. It is quite outrageous to blame power outages on us,” Numsa spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi said. Hlubi said they had been very sceptical all along about Eskom’s finances. South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) deputy general secretary Moleko Phakedi said there were no acts of sabotage and that management was running out of steam. “Load shedding was always on the cards. We know that the management has been capacitating Eskom so that they can justify their privatisation programmes,” he said. Phakedi said the power utility was playing a blame game while not managing to meet the demands of the workers. Solidarity spokesperson Francois Redelinghuys said they could not comment on the sabotage Eskom had cited since their members were not participating. On Friday, Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan brokered talks between Eskom and the unions in an attempt to secure the country’s power supply. Following the meeting with Gordhan and organised labour, Eskom agreed to negotiate a new wage deal after initially offering no increase at all. The workers are demanding a 15% wage increase. Gordhan urged both sides to ensure that the power supply was fully restored. Hlubi said Numsa was expecting Eskom to come with a genuine offer tomorrow when negotiations resumed. Refusing to be drawn into the possible reasons behind load shedding this winter, the Public Enterprises Department said the matter was “operational” and only Eskom could account for it. Spokesperson Richard Mantu said their intervention was only to ensure that Eskom and the unions went back to the negotiation table for the benefit of all. Energy experts weighed in, saying the power utility had been sitting on a powder keg for years regarding its operations, which had now exploded, causing havoc at every turn. Chris Yelland said it was clear there was confusion in Eskom’s executive management. “They say one thing (no load shedding) then they come up with something else (there will be load shedding). Eskom’s leadership is at a crossroads.” Yelland said the reality is that labour unrest was starting to bite. “On Saturday alone, a massive 6 000MW came offline. This is highly unusual, especially as it was a public holiday and one would expect low demand for electricity (and therefore no load shedding),” he said. Yelland said the country was certainly in a crisis if industrial action could cause a loss of such proportions. Another expert, Mike Levington, blamed political interference for the latest crisis. “The reality is that Eskom is facing critical operational issues. In the past 15 to 18 years this has been building up, and has now exploded, with little idea of how to bring it under control. It’s the structure of the electricity sector and political interference that has brought us to where we are today,” Levington said. Meanwhile, Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe said full recovery of the power system would take up to 10 days once all staff returned to work today. “Load shedding is conducted as a measure of last resort to protect the power system from a total collapse or blackout. “While the safety of employees remains our first priority, recovery teams at our power stations continue to work hard to stabilise the power system and to return our generation plant as quickly as possible,” he said. Phasiwe said the incidents of sabotage included some workers deliberately switching off electrical equipment. “In Rivonia on Thursday people who were part of the strike started switching off some of our mini stations that supply power to the area,” he said. There had been “unusual” activities at main power stations. “We witnessed some of our stations going off for seemingly no reason,” he said. Last month Eskom insisted that there would be no load shedding this winter even with coal shortages at seven of its 15 power stations. Eskom acting CEO Phakamani Hadebe said load shedding would only happen if there was a major problem the company could not cope with at one of its power stations. -LILLIAN SELAPISA, BERNARD SATHEKGE, TIISETSO MANOKO AND BONOLO SELEBANO