THE spate of cash-in-transit heists are acts of terrorism that are claiming the lives of innocent victims while instilling fear in the nation. This is according to Police Minister Bheki Cele, who said the criminals had declared war. So far this year 159 cash-in-transit heists have been reported, the South African Banking Risk Information Centre (Sabric) said during a press conference in Pretoria yesterday. Cele said this week he visited the family of a victim of a fatal shooting following the cash-in-transit robbery last Friday evening when robbers shot at vehicles in close proximity to the crime scene. He said major efforts had been made to deal with these heists. “In the past 24 hours, we’ve arrested 13 of these guys. You can add your three in Vaal, we’ve arrested number two in the hierarchy. South Africans are going to be safe,” he said. He also said that while most of the people arrested were from KwaZuluNatal, a number of foreign nationals had been involved in crime for some time. “The head of police in Zimbabwe is a good friend of mine and we exchange a lot of information. “Criminality is becoming SADC, we also have some from Botswana and Zimbabwe. There are more mixed suspects,” Cele said. National police commissioner Khehla Sitole said they had a modus operandi analysis centre used to track methods used by the criminals. “We are now doing this analysis permanently. We know some of them are inside jobs. We change our strategies depending on the modus operandi used,” he said. Cele said for the past six years the police had been without a crime intelligence head. “Now we have one. We also now have a permanent head of the Hawks. We are getting ready, we are beginning to turn the corner. From the Boksburg heist video that went viral we have arrested five suspects. “There is a foreign element in these heists. We won’t mention nationalities because we’ll be accused of xenophobia but we’ll have to at some stage,” he said. Sabric’s Kevin Twiname said of the 71 attacks this year, 49 resulted in the write-off of these specialised vehicles that cost between R1.1m and R1.4m each. He said there were cross-pavement incidents, which were on the decrease, but more vehicles on the move were being attacked. There were 25 last year. “We do not reveal how much cash has been lost, but the cost of vehicles lost is about R67m so far this year,” he said. The Federation of Unions of South Africa (Fedusa) has threatened to go on a march next week to highlight the safety of its members who work as security guards. -KUTULLO MADISHA