A FRESH tussle to name the new North West premier is expected at today’s meeting of the ANC national executive committee (NEC). Supporters of President Cyril Ramaphosa are fuming over the North West provincial executive committee (PEC) led by Supra Mahumapelo for favouring North West speaker Susan Dantjie to replace the former premier. The PEC is expected to field Dantjie along with former provincial directorgeneral Job Mokgoro, ambassador to the UN Jerry Matjila and Environmental Affairs Minister Edna Molewa. However, ANC NEC sources said Matjila, Molewa and Mokgoro were not “available” and that Dantjie, a close ally of Mahumapelo, had been “manoeuvred to become the premier”. Ramaphosa’s backers are protesting over the names of South African Democratic Teachers Union provincial chairperson Mxolisi Bomvana and former education MEC Zakes Tolo – which were also discussed in a recent meeting between ANC, SACP, Cosatu and Sanco provincial office bearers – being left out of the PECs’ final list. Meanwhile, a report from Obed Bapela, the ANC NEC convener of party deployees to the North West, will be submitted today to the party’s highest decision-making body. The inter-ministerial task team report of Minister in the Presidency Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma is also expected to come under the microscope. This comes amid calls to have the PEC disbanded and replaced with a provincial task team. Bapela said at the weekend that his report was ready and would be submitted to the special NEC meeting in Irene, outside Pretoria. “It is like that. It will be part of the discussions tomorrow (today). We do have recommendations but they are subject to acceptance or rejection at the NEC,” he said. Bapela said of the disbandment of the PEC: “It’s still subject for discussions.” ANC insiders said at the weekend that the disbandment of the North West PEC was on the cards. “The written reports will be given to us and based on that, we’ll take a decision,” a source said. In KwaZulu-Natal, the ANC national dispute resolution committee went into overdrive at the weekend in an effort to arrest escalating political disputes. ANC NEC KwaZulu-Natal interim team leader and chairperson of the ANC disciplinary committee, Edna Molewa, could not comment on calls to haul disaffected party members to the party disciplinary committee for bypassing internal structures due to a conflict of interest. “I cannot comment, I am the chairperson,” she said. Similar challenges are being experienced in the Eastern Cape, where last year a so-called “festival of chairs” provincial conference that elected Oscar Mabuyane as chairperson is also being challenged. Aggrieved party members are demanding that the Sbu Ndebele report, which recommended that the elected provincial leadership be disbanded, be implemented. The status of the newly elected Free State PEC has also been called into question. The provincial conference elected Free State MEC for police, roads and transport Sam Mashinini as chairperson, with William Bulwane as deputy chairperson. -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@afrotone.co.za