The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has rejected the ANC’s proposal to rename Cape Town International Airport after late former President Nelson Mandela. It is alleged that the ANC proposes for the Airport to be renamed after the late struggle icons name. “EFF rejects ANC’s proposal that Cape Town International Airport is renamed to Nelson Mandela. This comes as a direct counterproposal to EFF’s name of Mama Winnie Mandela. ANC proposes that instead, the name of Mama Winnie Mandela must be given to domestic airport in Kimberly. “This proposal is yet another reaffirmation of patriarchal power and domination by the ANC which has not only put up a woman’s name against that of a man but seeks to render a woman’s name to insignificance,” EFF said in a statement. The ANC wants to honour Mandela for the role he played during the liberation struggle. ANC National Communications Manager, Donovan Cloete said the EFF is ‘jumping the gun’ on this issue and the ANC is not going to respond or get into a debate in this regard. Meanwhile on Monday, during a public participation meeting, members of the Khoisan community proposed that the airport must be renamed Krotoa Aiport, after a Khoi woman. It was reported that tempers flared up during that public meeting between the participants. However, Airports Company South Africa (ACSA) said that the meeting was properly concluded despite the reports of chaos. Submission for the proposals for the renaming of the Airport closes today. In April, EFF leader Julius Malema had proposed that the airport should be renamed after Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. Malema made the announcement during Madikizela-Mandela’s funeral at the Orlando Stadium. A number of names have since been proposed including that of struggle icon Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe. The EFF has also called on women organisations to rally behind Winnie-Mandela. “We further note the shocking loud silence of women organisations, in particular, the ANCWL. Since the campaign for renaming of Airports began, they have not supported the name of Mama Winnie Mandela for Cape Town International Airport,” the EFF said. Afro Voice Reporter