Hands up if you’ve not been affected by a car accident? South Africa has one of the worst road accident statistics in the world. From the highest echelons of society to us ordinary citizens, accidents have claimed countless victims. On March 15, 2015, SA was shocked by the news that one of the country’s shining lights in government, public service and administration minister Collins Chabane had died in an accident. Annually, the Easter and December vacations produce statistics that omit the tears while counting the economic costs amounting to billions. As a child, I remember attending my cousin Roy Arumugam’s wedding to his pretty wife Dollie in the mid-’70s. It was a joyous day as the Dukes Combo brought happy feet to Detroit Street, Bayview. The following week we were at his funeral. Roy, was knocked and dragged by a vehicle, apparently by a drunken driver, 100m from home. I will never forget his face nor the tears I shed. The Post ran a front page story on Roy and his heartbroken bride on their wedding day ruined by a drunk in their Detroit Street boulevard of broken dreams. The world has fast-tracked to the 21st century but now it is about autonomous cars. When do they become ubiquitous? But more crucially, will they alter driving patterns and reduce the number of deaths on our roads? Given the failure at reducing accidents, we might as well try. Certainly, not everyone can afford these vehicles with massive technological prowess. But several manufacturers, not just disruptors at Uber and Google, are leading the self-drive race that could takes drunken or careless hands away from the steering wheel. If you’re a James Bond fan, you will remember Pierce Brosnan controlling a 7 series from the back seat via his cellphone in Tomorrow Never Dies. Visiting the BMW Museum in Munich, I learnt that the car was controlled by a stuntman on the floor in the backseat, using a makeshift steering wheel, while Brosnan played on his mobile. Brosnan parked the Beemer in front of the car hire firm from the upper story parking lot. Life is not as romantic as in the movies since not all accidents have a happy ending. BMW is not about fantasy. They have self-driving capabilities on the BMW 750i xDrive, which is a drivingaid than full autonomous package. It comes with lane departure warning, automatic braking system and a pedestrian alert while driving in the city. But they’re not alone in the autonomous car chase. Innovative car maker Volvo, owned by the Chinese, is also involved in the autonomous race with vehicles, such as the Volvo XC90 range, blessed with Intellisafe Autopilot that reacts quicker than the driver, braking when it senses vehicles in its path. Audi is said to be polishing an autonomous vehicle dubbed Robby that has yet to leave the factory production line. The next-generation Audi A8 has automatic parking (Mercedes Benz B-Class had it a decade ago) and can go solo at speeds up to 60km/h. But can they come any sooner? SA has too many orphans, widows and widowers. In 2017, according to the Road Traffic Management Corporation, 14 050 people died on our roads, majority pedestrians and passengers. During Easter 2018, there 510 fatalities, compared to 449 in 2017. While awaiting the safer – and affordable – autonomous vehicles, motorists should Uber or Taxify if they’re under the influence of alcohol and drive calmly, to borrow the tired cliché, to Arrive Alive. -EDWIN NAIDU