South Africans can breathe a slight breath of relief following the announcement of low probability of load-shedding during the day by power utility Eskom. Eskom has however not ruled out the possibility of load shedding during peak hours between five and nine PM due to the expected increase in demand. The power producer, however, said it would take an estimated ten days to achieve full restoration following a strike by workers affiliated to National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa(NUMSA) and National Union of Mineworkers(NUM) over wages last week. Company CEO Phakamani Hadebe said that the company would be implementing 0% salary increase for all its employees this year due to the company’s current financial position. Workers are demanding a 15% pay rise, which they have indicated they are willing to negotiate one once a counteroffer has been made. Negotiations are expected to resume today following an announcement by Public Enterprise Minister Pravin Gordhan that the 0% salary offer was off the table. In a statement issued by Eskom, the company said while the safety of its employees remains the company’s first priority, recovery teams at several power stations continue to work hard to stabilise the power system and to return generation plant to normality as quickly as possible. “Eskom’s prognosis is that the power system will take up to approximately ten days to recover from the effects of the recent industrial action, once all staff eventually return to work today,” The statement said. The company said an increase in production and full stability can only increase and be achieved with the return to work by all employees today. “We continue to encourage residents and businesses to please use electricity sparingly to ease the demand of electricity. Please switch off geysers during the day especially during peak periods (07:00 to 10:00 and 18:00 to 21:00) as well as all non-essential lighting and electricity appliances to assist in reducing demand.”The statement added. Last month Eskom insisted that there would be no load shedding this winter even with coal shortages at seven of its 15 power stations. Hadebe at the time said load shedding would only happen if there was a major problem the company could not cope with at one of its power stations. -Afro Voice Reporter