DA Shadow Minister of Basic Education Nomsa Marchesi has slammed the Department of Basic Education for not taking the idea of improving facilities at schools seriously. Marchesi said many learners across South Africa are forced to use pit toilets as they have not been provided with adequate alternatives by the ANC government. She was speaking during the DA’s visit to Mzwandile High School, KwaMlamuli Combined Primary School and Huba High School in Richmond, KwaZulu-Natal to find out about the situation on sanitation backlogs. Marchesi was accompanied by DA spokesperson on Education Rishigen Viranna. She said it is unacceptable that 24 years after democracy, many learners were still forced to use hazardous toilets which are not only unsanitary but also undignified and life-threatening. “Children have died in pit latrines, yet there still appears to be no plan by the government to prevent these deaths by building adequate and safe toilets.” Marchesi said during the visit, they also found the newly built Mzwandile High School having no furniture and textbooks while they saw how learners were subjected to the use of pit toilets and crowded classes at kwaMlamuli. According to the Department of Basic Education, it would cost R7.8 Billion to eradicate pit toilets at all schools across the country. The announcement was made after a 5-year-old pupil from Luna Primary School in Bizana, Eastern Cape fell in a pit toilet and died. Marchesi said this is the same amount that the department’s budget was cut by during the 2018 budget. “The ANC government clearly cannot be trusted with our learners’ future when they are failing to meet the basic requirements of keeping children physically safe at schools. “The fact that the Department of Basic Education (DBE) failed to meet its own Accelerated School Infrastructure Delivery Initiative targets for yet another year proves that the ANC is not serious about making schools safe,” she said. Repeated calls to KwaZulu-Natal Department of Education Spokesperson Kwazi Mthethwa’s cell phone and office number went unanswered -Afro Voice Reporter