ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule has instructed the party’s provincial executive committee in Limpopo to “proceed with preparations” for its longawaited Waterberg and Peter Mokaba regional conferences. In an internal memo dated May 31, sent to provincial secretary Knocks Seabi, Magashule said the province should get on with preparations for hosting regional and provincial conferences in line with the national executive committee (NEC) mandate that outstanding conferences should be concluded by the end of next month. “The NEC further resolved, specifically on Limpopo, that the province should proceed with preparations for the regional conferences in the Waterberg and Peter Mokaba districts and provincial conferences that are due. Once the criteria are met the secretary general office must be informed of the process dates,” Magashule said. He also instructed Seabi to report back on progress on regional conferences to the NEC. “As provincial secretary, you are requested to urgently communicate these decisions to the provincial executive committee (PEC) and NEC deployees as well as regions and branches in the province,” he said. ANC regional and provincial structures are in a race against time to convene elective conferences before the end of July as mandated by the party’s NEC. The ANC in KwaZulu-Natal is gearing up for its provincial conference tomorrow despite continued threats from aggrieved party members in its trouble-torn Moses Mabhida region, to bring the conference to a halt by obtaining a court interdict. It is expected that provincial conferences in Gauteng and the Western Cape will also be concluded before the end of June. In addition, the ANC in Mpumalanga recently came out of a meeting with the ruling party’s dispute resolution committee over grievances about the The PEC’s preparations for its anticipated provincial conference to replace Deputy President David Mabuza as chairperson. Seabi said yesterday that the Waterberg and Peter Mokaba regions would hold their elective conferences after the provincial conference scheduled for June 22-24. “The conferences will take place after the provincial conference,” he said. He said preparations for all regional conferences and the provincial conference resumed after the ANC elective conference at Nasrec last year. “Remember, the ANC took a resolution that all conferences must be put on hold until the Nasrec conference. We are from Nasrec and preparations began in January,” Seabi said. -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@afrotone.co.za