ANC branch members in Limpopo have appealed for intervention from the ruling party’s secretary-general Ace Magashule on “unconstitutional” processes in preparation for the provincial elective conference. Magashule instructed the party’s provincial executive committee in Limpopo to “proceed with preparations” for its long-awaited Waterberg and Peter Mokaba regional conferences. The Peter Mokaba region had its regional general council last Friday and ANC members are now challenging the legitimacy of the provincial executive committee (PEC) in taking binding decisions on the ANC structures as its term to hold office has lapsed. ANCYL regional secretary Howard Masoga said at the weekend that the PEC had no authority to appoint a regional task team to oversee the running of the region. “They were called for an unconstitutional announcement by unconstitutional people. We call on the office of the secretary-general to come and intervene in the Limpopo and Peter Mokaba region issue before it gets out of hand,” he said. This comes as ANC regional and provincial structures are in a race against time to convene elective conferences before the end of July as mandated by the ruling party’s NEC. The ANC’s provincial conference has been scheduled for next week Friday to Sunday. Magashule said in an internal memo to provincial secretary Knocks Seabi: “The NEC further resolved specifically on Limpopo province that the province should proceed with preparations for the regional conferences in the Waterberg and Peter Mokaba and provincial conferences that are due.” Magosa lamented the quashing of internal democracy in the ANC. “What worried us more was the fact that when delegates wanted to ask questions about what would happen to the processes which were officiated by the illegal structure in a form of the expired REC, comrades John Mpe and Thabo Mokone decided to suppress the delegates and abruptly closed the Regional General Council. “The Regional General Council is one internal platform where ANC matters from branches can be raised. The ANC cannot make it fashionable to always want to give answers to branches under the duress of court affidavits,” Masoga said. He also warned that if tensions persisted in the region, ANC members could resort to taking the party to court. “The ANC in Limpopo must learn from other provinces like Free State, North West and KZN where conference matters had to be resolved in court and the ANC was always found on the wrong side of the law,” he said. Seabi was unavailable for comment yesterday. bonolos@afrotone.co.za –