ALLEGATIONS of racism have again been raised against the University of the Free State, this time by postgraduate medical students who say there is a system to hinder their progress while white students are given an easy pass. Yesterday, the group of postgraduate students held an all-day meeting with the university’s head of clinical medicine, Prof Nathaniel Mofolo, where they aired their grievances. One doctor, Dr Peter Moletsane alleged he was dismissed from the postgrad programme in clinical pathology and that the university refused to credit him for the modules he passed at other universities. He also claimed that this happened while the UFS failed to support him while studying there. He said he had been struggling for almost six years to be credited by the UFS. “We have spoken and now they realise that they have been victimising us for so long, they have agreed to credit me. “I am not the only one, there are many people who have been told that they had failed but when they want their scripts they do not get them, they get them after a year or more and they find that they obtained above 60% but still declared failed,” he said. Moletsane said after being failed by the university several times, he then went to the University of Pretoria where he passed even though the UFS refused to credit him. “For all these years I have been to various political leaders and government office and no one took this matter seriously for six years,” he said. At the top of the list of grievances tabled by the students were racism and victimisation. They also claim that there are some black professors at these university who are supporting the whites professors to victimise black students because they want recognition. Another postgraduate at the university, Boitumelo Khomo, a graduate in psychology from the EFF labour desk in Johannesburg, said they also wanted to deal with racism in the UFS. “Racism is the DNA of this university, white professors are enforcing it I am a former student, I know what is happening there, you have to fight in order to pass,” she said. Khomo said 2018 was the year of public health and in following that mandate, they had pushed efforts in helping black students at UFS who are being treated unfairly. “We want many black graduates students at the public health facilities, so we want Dr Moletsane to be credited today and also want him to graduate in September,” she said. UFS spokesperson Lacea Loader confirmed that Mofolo and the management of the faculty of health sciences met with a group of postgraduate students. “They all met yesterday regarding matters of concern to them. After an in-depth discussion, it was agreed that an alleged complaint of racism in the faculty would be investigated,” Loader said.