KwaZulu-Natal MEC of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Nomusa Dube-Ncube believes that allegations of corruption levelled against her by the DA are part of a plot to sow disunity within the ANC ahead of the Provincial Elective Conference this weekend. This comes as the DA on Wednesday issued the threat of a motion of no confidence against KZN Premier Willies Mchunu should he not suspend Dube-Ncube after they accused her of using her influence to improperly benefit her husbands business as well as approving the improper appointment of the Nkandla and Mthonjaneni municipal managers. However, Dube-Ncube has rubbished all of the DA’s allegations calling them a rapid repackaging of largely unchecked, second-hand material. KZN MEC Cogta Nomusa Dube Ncube says this allegations of corruption by the DA is nothing but a ploy to create disunity within the ANC as it prepares for the Provincial Elective Conference this coming weekend @afroworldview @AfroVoiceLIVE pic.twitter.com/OseV8Q4zHc — Phathisa Mfuyo (@thisamfuyo) June 6, 2018 According to the MEC she has already instituted a High Court application against the Nkandla and Mthonjaneni Municipalities and a court appearance is scheduled for 28 June where she will request an order to set aside the appointment of Nkandla municipal manager, Langelihle Jili. “In light of the fact that I approached the High Court nearly a month ago to set the irregular appointments of the Municipal Managers at the two municipalities aside, I am amazed by the audacity of the DA who on the one hand allege that I irregularly approved the appointment of the two Municipal managers,” she said. Dube-Ncube also cast aside allegations that she had any influence in the awarding of an R7.7 million contract to her husband’s company by the Nkandla municipality adding that her husbands business involvement in both the public and private sector predates their marriage. “I am not involved in any procurement matters, not in my own Department, and especially not in Municipalities, which fall within a different sphere of government. “I am not aware of the appointment of Brand Partners in any Municipality as I am not involved in his business and do not follow the day-to-day operations of his businesses or the bid awards of municipalities.” The MEC said she would consult with her legal advisors on what steps to take because she regards the allegations levelled against her as defamation of character. Earlier DA KZN leader Zwakele Mncwango issued an ultimatum to Premier Willies Mchunu to suspend Dube-Ncube within seven days or face a motion of no confidence. “The DA expects the MEC to explain exactly how and why her husband came to be awarded these contracts and why both of these municipal managers were appointed in spite of irregularities,” said Mncwango. -AfroVoice Reporter