THE Minerals Council South Africa said yesterday the latest proposed Mining Charter is a material improvement on previous proposals. But it said much more work needed to be done to create a charter that promotes competitiveness, investment, growth and transformation for the growth and prosperity of SA. “The Minerals Council supports a 30% black ownership target on new mining rights, with shares allocated for communities, organised labour and black entrepreneurs. “The Minerals Council does not support some of the elements of the new draft Mining Charter. Most importantly, some of the elements do not promote competitiveness. “Without competitiveness, investment in new exploration and mining will be limited and the mining sector will continue to decline, to the detriment of all citizens. “This is directly contrary to President Cyril Ramaphosa’s stated intention to attract $100bn in foreign investment into South Africa in the next five years. The charter contains elements that are unconstitutional and contrary to South African company law. “The Minerals Council does not support the free carried interest of 5% allocated to each of labour and communities. “Given South Africa’s mature mining sector, a 10% total free carried interest on new mining rights will materially undermine investment by pushing up investment hurdle rates and ensuring that many potentially new projects become unviable. “Imposition of a free carried interest is a public policy choice which must be weighed against the critical need to attract investment for growth and employment,” the council said. “The Minerals Council does not support the 1% EBITDA target to communities and labour proposed by DMR. This was not agreed as a recommendation by the charter task team, so it is a surprise addition. “The issue of topping up existing right holders’ BEE ownership to 30% within five years was never agreed as a recommendation by the charter task team and so this is another surprise inclusion by the DMR. “The Minerals Council does not support this top-up, as it prejudices existing right holders that secured their rights on the basis of the 2004 and 2010 Charters,” the council said. It said it would continue to engage the DMR and other stakeholders and make a comprehensive submission to the DMR “on the key issues that need to be changed or resolved”. business@afrotone.co.za