PROTEAS batsman Dean Elgar has raised his hand and asked to be given a chance to play in the short format of the game with the ICC cricket World Cup looming next year. Elgar has been playing the long format of the game for the Proteas and much like the majority of first class cricketers in the country, has spotted an opportunity in the wake of superstar AB de Villiers’ retirement. “I’ve got a lot of experience even though people have written me off in terms of white ball cricket. That is quite annoying because I don’t like proving myself every year,” Elgar said. “I’m a little bit sick and tired of that and I’m available for that format and I love playing that format. I’ve played more of it in England than I have in South Africa.” Much like the rest of the world, De Villiers’ retirement took Elgar by surprise, particularly the timing of it, with the World Cup looming next year. “It was always going to be unexpected when AB retired‚ even if he had done so at 50. “It’s a massive hole but there’s still a big opportunity with a number of young players who are coming through. It’s not the be all and end all of South African cricket. “The game is going to move forward and there are guys who are going to put their hands up throughout the next South African summer. “Losing AB is a big thing but cricket hasn’t come to a standstill.” Elgar has been in excellent form for his county Surrey in England’s domestic limited overs competition, with scores of 91, 50 and 87 in his last three innings. Proteas coach Ottis Gibson said last month following the retirement of De Villiers that they may look at Elgar as a possible replacement. “He’s not out of the picture. I guess we haven’t looked at Dean since I’ve been appointed and it’s gone on before that too. I would definitely think AB’s departure makes him part of the conversation again,” Gibson said. Elgar says he wants to have a meeting with Gibson in coming days to let him know about his feelings. “It is important to have these chats and it is important to have them before the season starts for the players to know so they can prepare accordingly,” Elgar said. “It is important to have a coach and player relationship grow stronger. I think it is very important for the team structure point of view so the team can know potentially what could be happening. Let’s see what happens.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@afrotone.co.za