NEW Baroka FC coach Wedson Nyirenda believes he can replicate the success he had with Zambian teams Zesco United and Zanaco at Bakgakga. Nyirenda was unveiled as the Baroka NEW Baroka FC coach Wedson Nyirendacoach on Friday and wants to help the side to win silverware like he did with Zesco and Zanaco. He will start preparing the team today as they begin their pre-season and also present will be the team’s 10 new signings. “I must say from my past experience with Zesco and other teams which nearly got relegated, I revamped them into a championship team,” Nyirenda said. “In the first season, we won the league and all four cups. Second season, we won the league again and the cups. In the third season I went to Zanaco and I won the league and one cup and in the other competition we lost in the final. “I came here with the same spirit that we can win something if we work together, if everyone is following instructions and work for one another.” Nyirenda, who stepped down as Zambia national team coach is also looking forward to test his tactics against the PSL’s best coaches in Pitso Mosimane, Gavin Hunt, Milutin Sredojevic and others. Having achieved many in Zambia in the past, he feels he can take it on with the likes of Mosimane and Hunt in the PSL. “We cannot promise mountains, what I can say is that people will see a difference. They will see good football and they will see a team with the character of champions. “My biggest love of all these things is I will be mingling with people like Pitso Mosimane. I respect him so much. He has done great things in football. Milutin Sredojevic of Pirates, Luc Eymael of Free State Stars and great guys like Gavin Hunt who I played with at Hellenic and was my captain. Those guys have inspired me a lot and this is the time to rub shoulders with them.” Nyirenda said it was not difficult to join Baroka and that he was looking forward to build a team which will be challenging for titles. “They really convinced me with the way they live their life here. When we were speaking I just had this soft spot for the team. It was not so difficult. “It feels great. I am so excited. I looked forward to this day when I will be back in Mzansi. I thank Baroka FC for giving me this opportunity. Together we are going to achieve greater things.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@afrotone.co.za