THE need for urgent action to address mental illness has been highlighted in a newly released report by the World Health Organisation. The report has called for urgent action in addressing non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and mental disorders. It comes when South Africa is battling the explosion of NCDs and the high burden of mental disorders. The report highlighted the urgent need to “prevent and treat mental disorders as an integral part of action against NCDs”. “Mental disorders impose an enormous disease burden on societies. Depression alone affects 300 million people globally and is the leading cause of disability worldwide,” the report reads. Figures contained in the report indicates that nearly 800 000 people die from suicide each year while dementia is among the top 10 global causes of death. According to the report, people with severe mental disorders have a reduced life expectancy of 10 to 20 years, largely due to untreated NCDs. A recent Statistics SA’s Causes of Death report indicated that more South Africans died more from NCDs, also referred to as lifestyle diseases, compared to communicable diseases in 2016. Figures contained in the report indicated that NCDs accounted for 57.4% of all deaths when compared to 31.3% of deaths due to communicable diseases. According to the WHO, NCDs are responsible for seven out of 10 deaths globally every year. Lack of political will and priority setting, the impact of economic, commercial and market factors and insufficient financing are listed in the report as some of the challenges in combating NCDs. The report recommends, among other things, that “governments should implement a specific set of priorities within the overall NCD and mental health agenda, based on public health needs and that health systems should be reorientated to include NCDs prevention and control in their universal health coverage policies and plans”. The commission on NCDs was announced by the WHO recently on the backdrop of the global increase in NCDs. The SA Health Department has consistently stressed the need for prevention coupled with awareness and healthy lifestyles among things that must be done to deal with NCDs. Meanwhile, Parliament was last week briefed on possible law reforms that will allow people with mental health disorders the right to vote in elections. -LERATO DIALE|leratod@afrotone.co.za