South African Democratic Teachers Union (SADTU) said it is concerned about the increased incidents of assault on educators by students. This comes after a video emerged where a woman, who is reportedly a teacher is shown being assaulted by two females, who are said to be students. The authenticity and the location of where the video was recorded have not been confirmed, but it is alleged that the students assaulted the teacher after she confiscated a cellphone from one of them. Sadtu Media Officer Nomusa Cembi said it is not for the first time that teachers are increasingly being assaulted and being bullied by learners. In a different incident: “A teacher was stabbed and killed by a learner in the Northern Cape after the teacher failed him. “He went to the teacher’s house and killed him… there doesn’t seem to be anything to stem, this,” Cembi said. Cembi said as a union they have been saying for a long time that issues of school discipline should not be left only to the teachers to deal with. “This is a community issue… it is a societal matter. we have been saying teachers should play a bigger role in the education of their teachers, and for communities to see themselves as part of the school. The norms that these kids are showing are from communities.” She said she was alarmed by the level of aggression that is being shown by the students and such behaviour can never be condoned. According to Cembi, violence against teachers and the confusion on how to enforce discipline at school were some of the reasons why a number of teachers were leaving the profession because teachers just don’t know how to enforce the rules. “It is the teacher who will have to take the blame if he retaliates or defend themselves when they are being assaulted. “They risk losing their licenses if they fight back. At the end of the day, teachers are leaving the profession because they are not protected in any way,” she said. Cembi said it is now going to be very hard for the teacher to go back, stand in front of a class and teach the same people who assaulted her. -Afro Voice Reporter