THE capacity and ability of a municipality to invest and look after its essential infrastructure, including roads, electricity, water and other services, have a huge bearing on the quality of life of citizens, Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene said. “If we are to raise the pace at which our economy grows and eliminate the legacies of apartheid, we must fix our municipalities,” he said at the municipal innovative infrastructure financing conference this week. The national government transfers more than R40bn to municipalities every year to assist them in funding infrastructure investment. Nene said municipalities must contribute to this tranche by increasing the share of resources they generate on their own. “The cost structure of our economy also remains too high, making it difficult, for example, for small businesses to be created and sustained. Examples of these costs are broadband, transportation and the high cost of complying with regulation.” The government is keenly aware of the constraints to growth. “We are therefore redoubling our efforts to enact reforms that will raise the pace at which our economy can grow, increase its productivity and create more room for competition by, among other things, lowering the cost of doing business. “Assuming that the global environment remains supportive, the national Treasury estimates that the effective implementation of reforms in areas such as agriculture, competition policy, telecoms, tourism and others could lift the rate of economic growth higher.” Nene said municipalities have a role to play in this reform agenda. The major contribution of municipalities to economic growth is on at least two fronts. First, the provision of urban infrastructure services such as water and sanitation, electricity distribution, waste removal and disposal, building and maintenance of roads and the provision of public transport. Second, municipalities contribute directly to the cost of doing business because they issue construction permits, connect businesses to the electricity network and play a big role in the transfer of ownership of property. “When municipalities carry out this regulatory and administrative function ineffectively and inefficiently, they retard economic growth. “The building of new and the maintenance of infrastructure talks to these two contributions by municipalities to economic growth,” Nene said. AfroVoice Reporter