Johannesburg Mayor Herman Mashaba said on Thursday that former President Jacob Zuma must be given space to talk. Mashaba said that Zuma must not be the only one who is vilified. “Let us allow and give Zuma space to talk. Why must he be the only one vilified when he knows he was not alone. Zuma was President for almost ten years, surrounded by men & women with full knowledge of what was happening,” Mashaba said in a Tweet. This comes after the former President issued a stern warning towards his detractors on Wednesday during an event where he was addressing the Congress of South African Students (Cosas) at the Durban City Hall in KwaZulu-Natal. Zuma said that he kept quiet while people were talking about him during his presidency out of respect. “There are people who like to talk about me, who are provoking me, and I have been keeping quiet when I was the President of the country in respect to them. It’s not that I don’t have anything to say. I now don’t have the responsibility of a President and I want to warn them, they must keep quiet, they must discuss their organisation, not me.” A number of politicians have come out in public and criticised Zuma after he stepped down as President. SACP general-secretary Blade Nzimande recently publicly criticised Zuma and further called on him to distance himself from the rumoured political party that is allegedly being formed in his honour. “I have things to say about their organisation and themselves, I don’t want to do so because I think I know why I was part of the struggle, why I’m part of the leadership. They must not provoke me,” Zuma said. Zuma called on his detractors to discuss their own programs and policies instead of discussing him. Let us allow & give Zuma space to talk. Why must he be the only one vilified when he knows he was not alone. Zuma was President for almost ten years, surrounded by men & women with full knowledge of what was happening https://t.co/p1uS6BAgKM — Herman Mashaba (@HermanMashaba) June 7, 2018  -Afro Voice Reporter 