Afro Worldview is a well-oiled machine, boasting the finest infrastructure including three states of the art studios, advanced camera technology, edit suites, graphics and operations departments with young and enthusiastic people steering the process, Chairperson of Afrotone Media Holdings (AMH) Mzwanele Manyi said. Manyi was addressing the media at the unveiling of Afro Worldview’s broad-based ownership on Tuesday, in Midrand. He said that Afro Worldview, previously known as ANN7, has been re-positioned to AMH, which compromises of 100% black-owned media entity with a staff complement of about 500 people, mostly young South African women. “Afro Worldview is a battle of ideas platform which seeks to embrace black excellence and tell the stories of the poor and powerless with the same magnitude it would, the rich and powerful. “Our news approach is fundamentally based on the philosophy of Ubuntu. We are sensitive to advancing humanity, in all of us.” Manyi added that Afro Voice has also experienced significant change with a new look and revamped content which entrenches its relevance in the media space. “We are Afrocentric in our news coverage approach, guided by the demographics of our country. Our channels editorial policy of telling our stories in an accurate, unbiased and independent manner is in keeping with all the dictates of BCCSA.” Manyi also introduced to the crowd the new partners, saying they have vowed to take the organisation to greater heights. The new shareholders are: Unathi Mguye who has an extensive experience in the public and the private sector. She founded Storky Management Consulting firm with clients across various industries. She also established Omama Besizwe Investments for one million women in South Africa. Sifiso Mthethwa is an admitted Attorney of the High Court. He previously worked for Primedia, Investec and PricewaterhouseCoopers before going into legal practice. He has significant experience in media, broadcasting and policy development. The Princess, Zamaswazi Dlamini-Mandela who represents Mandela Legacy Media. She has a background in Public Relations and Media. She has been a spokesperson for 21 Icons, a project that visually celebrates the lives of those trying to shape the world. She is also the co-editor for 491 days, a book written by her grandmother Nomzamo Winnie Mandela which tells the story of the brutality she experienced at the hands of the apartheid state. Swati is a guru in PR and management. “In conclusion, we take this opportunity to welcome our new shareholders and are extremely confident that together with our employees we will make a significant difference to the lives of the millions of our people through the provision of quality and balanced journalism.” Watch full media briefing below:   -Afro Voice Reporter 