Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has supported the party’s Chief Whip and Deputy President Floyd Shivambu for comments directed at the National Treasury’s Deputy Director-General Ismail Momoniat during the Standing Committee on Finance meeting. Shivambu objected to the presence of Momoniat, who was representing the department during a Standing Committee on Finance meeting on Monday because he was ‘unAfrican’. He asked why the Director-General Dondo Mohajane was not briefing the committee and said this undermined African representativeness. The EFF said Momoniat has virtually assigned all National Treasury powers to himself and micromanages all its entities, in the process, the party said he is also trying to micromanage the Parliamentary legislative processes. EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said Momoniat had no regard for black, particularly African leadership in National Treasury and this included his disrespect for the Director General and African Ministers and Deputy Ministers. “For example, the whole process of drafting the so-called twin peaks legislation, the Financial Services Regulation Act was micromanaged by Momoniat. “National Treasury’s submissions to the Transformation of the Financial Sector was almost exclusively micromanaged by Momoniat, assisted by Consultants who were not appropriately appointed.” He added that whenever SARS comes to present in Parliament, Momoniat brings a parallel report, which always paints a bleak portrayal of African leadership in entities under National Treasury. “When the South African Reserve Bank appears in Parliament, it is Momoniat who brings a parallel report and speaks like he owns the Bank.” Ndlozi said when the Finance Committee first called for the curator of the VBS Mutual Bank to appear in Parliament, Momoniat instructed him not to come and asked why the committee invited the curator without his knowledge. “Virtually all activities and programmes of National Treasury are micromanaged and directed by Momoniat and the DG, who’s an African leader with experience in the National Treasury is sidelined from key decisions. “The Regulations of the Financial Services Conduct Authority were written and submitted by Momoniat to the exclusion of the minister whom by last is supposed to be tabled by the Minister.” He said in all these regulations, Momoniat replaces all reference to Minister with DDG referring to himself as a person who will play National Treasury role in the In these regulations, Momoniat replaced all reference to the Minister with DDG, referring to himself as a person who will play National Treasury role in the Financial Sector Conduct Authority (FSCA). “The EFF has recurrently questioned the power to Momoniat, who is de facto Minister of Finance because he does not recognize the African leadership that is leading National Treasury. “Other DDGs rarely take any decision, whilst Momoniat is responsible for virtually everything in National Treasury.” Former Gauteng Premier Mbhazima Shilowa, Reserve Bank Governor Lesetja Kganyago and his Deputy Kuben Naidoo have all took to Twitter to defend Momoniat, with Shilowa saying in all his years as a premier, he has never felt that their disagreements were based on race. Not once did I feel our disagreement were based on anything other than the need for us to adhere to Treasury regulations. When we felt his interpretation was wrong we said so without fear or favour. He’s a big boy who can defend himself. — Mbhazima Shilowa (@Enghumbhini) June 5, 2018 Naidoo described Momoniat as one of the finest civil servants that the country has produced. I rarely tweet, but this attack on Ismail Momoniat must be countered. Momo is one of the finest civil servants that the country has produced. I challenge those attacking him to subject themselves to lifestyle audits. His critics have something to hide. — Kuben Naidoo (@KubenNaidoo2) June 6, 2018 -Afro Voice Reporter