TRANSPORT Minister Blade Nzimande wants to sit down with some of his Cabinet colleagues to discuss South African Airways (SAA), security on trains, and the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa having to pay another state-owned entity to use railway tracks for its trains. Briefing the transport portfolio committee yesterday, Nzimande said the previous Cabinet reshuffles had destabilised state-owned enterprises. “I don’t want to talk about matters which are not in my purview, I’m not the president. This endless reshuffle has had devastating effects on departments. As part of the new dawn in Cabinet, we can concede those things.” Presently SAA falls under national Treasury, having been moved there from the Department of Public Enterprises by former president Jacob Zuma. But Nzimande said yesterday that he has had to absorb some flak for its performance despite the national airline not forming part of his portfolio. Saying that some of his Cabinet colleagues had raised SAA’s reporting lines, Nzimande said he would discuss the SAA situation with Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene and Public Enterprises Minister Pravin Gordhan. Nzimande said he wanted to take up the matter of rail safety, particularly in the Western Cape, with Police Minister Bheki Cele. “Prasa is paying millions for security but there is no impact. I’ve said to the minister of police we must sit down and discuss security, not only rail but also at airports. The security of our trains is a priority for me.” He told the portfolio committee that he was concerned that Prasa had not submitted its annual report to Parliament. On the South African National Roads Agency, Nzimande told the portfolio committee that he would be present if it were to call in the entity. But he described Sanral as one of South Africa’s best entities. He related how the presidents of neighbouring countries had complimented President Cyril Ramaphosa during his recent visit to Southern African Development Community countries. Ramaphosa told him that all presidents were asking him when he would assist them in getting highways as good as those in South Africa. Ramaphosa instructed him to engage his counterparts on how to use roads for regional integration. On the Road Accident Fund, Nzimande said allegations of conflicts of interest had been made. “That’s part of the problem: there are counter-accusations. The ideal thing is if we have a new board, they must look into it. I can’t see the old board going into it.” The portfolio committee heard in a presentation given yesterday that there were seven vacancies on Sanral’s board, five on the RAF board and eight on the board of the Airports Company of South Africa. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN|news@afrotone.co.za