FOR many parents, teaching their teenage girl children about the importance of managing their sexuality is often a difficult task just on its own. Perhaps that explains why a recent Facebook’s sex-themed armchair conversation with Hollywood actress Jada Pinkett-Smith and her daughter Willow Smith, which centred around this fierce topic, seemed to have touched the nerve among many female viewers. It was the 17-year-old Willow, who seemed to have stirred the pot enough to bring the issue to the surface when she shockingly confessed on having walked in on her parents having sex when asked to recount her introduction to sex – before her clearly surprised mother revealed that it was her own grandmother who taught her about masturbation when she was just nine years old. “My grandmother taught me about self-pleasuring because she wanted me to know that the pleasure was from me,” Pinkett-Smith, 46, recalled to both her daughter and mother, Adrienne Banfield-Jones. “She didn’t want me to fall into the hands of a man – and if he gave me pleasure, to think that it was him.” While much research on female adolescent sexuality is non-existent and if anything, it’s always centred around minimising and managing negative outcomes, while on the other hand sexual agency and desire is assumed to be inherently normal for young men, the wife of actor Will Smith admitted she still struggled with her own sexuality even though she had some sex education early on from her grandmother. “I’ve had a lot of experience with sex toys – I think by your age, I gave myself multiples first. multiple orgasms,” she further told Willow’s friend, Telana Lynum, 21. “I was really into it at one point, just because I was in an exploration state and I was abstaining from men.” The mother of two said: “I actually think I went through kind of an addiction, too, with it. And then one day, I was just like, ‘enough’. You’re having five orgasms a day. You get addicted because you can create so much pleasure. You just constantly want it.” While their conversation sparked some robust reactions among social media users, not only around adolescent girls’ experiences of sexuality, but what should be an acceptable age for parents to discuss sex with their children, a point for which Pinkett-Smith subsequently took a beating, the episode brought to the fore an important aspect, which is largely ignored unless it results in adverse consequences such as pregnancy or sexually-transmitted infections. While one user argued that “nine is too young to learn about that because women don’t start that until their late teens-20s”, another was quick to come to her defence, saying “nine is about the age most children start exploring themselves”. “Honestly, I think nine or 10 is a good time to take a step toward that conversation especially in the black community, the reality is our girls get sexualised at about that time and the catcalls begin,” another said. But what’s the expert’s take on this? What is it that society finds so perplexing about adolescent girls (a complex developmental period lasting from about ages 10 to 18) learning about female pleasure, specially when surveys (Centre for Research on Gender and Sexuality, San Francisco) point out that many girls (almost two thirds) in the senior year of high school engage in sexual intercourse? Raising his concerns on why female pleasure and the pursuit of it remains absent from scholarly researchers – despite endless proof that it’s important for both girl-children’s developmental stage and promotion of sexual health and rights – controversial feminist and author of Fight Like A Girl, Clementine Ford said on dailylife.com.au that she has “met many women who, even as adults, have talked themselves out of climaxing because they find the feeling too intense and anxiety-inducing”. “When female pleasure isn’t taught as a key component of sexual engagement and intercourse (particularly in hetero contexts), female participation is reinforced as something passive and secondary to the male role.” She insists, much like Pinket-Smith, that we should be teaching our girls to feel confident about their bodies instead of shame (as the patriarchal society continues to do) and give them a framework to express sexual autonomy and confidence. -TANKISO KOMANE|tankisok@afrotone.co.za