THE Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) is feverishly rolling out targeted interventions to update millions of outstanding addresses on the national common voters roll as it waits upon the Constitutional Court to grant its plea for an extension. The IEC has asked the ConCourt for an extension of 17 months to verify addresses of South Africans not recorded on the voters roll. The IEC’s voter registration drive in March only managed to capture addresses of 300 000 voters. At the time, a further 2.5 million addresses were outstanding. This comes as the 18-month deadline given by the court for the commission to fix defects on the voters roll ends at the end the month. With the IEC having asked the court for an extension from June 30 to November next year, IEC spokesperson Kate Bapela said yesterday the IEC would spare no effort in continuing with its work to update the roll. She said the IEC would take its interventions to address the challenge of securing outstanding addresses on the voters roll to a higher gear. “We have requested databases from public sector entities, we have also consulted with municipalities and cellphone companies, the post office. So it’s quite a broad range of initiatives and we’ll continue to do that irrespective,” Bapela said. “There was quite a lot of information that came and that has been helpful to ensure that every South African voter on the voters’ roll has a physical address.” Should the court rule unfavourably to the IEC, the electoral body risks having to disqualify more than 1 million people from the voters roll. It is for this that Bapela said the IEC would await the court’s ruling before announcing on other options. “We don’t want to speculate at the moment. Once the court has decided on the matter, only then will we say to South Africans what are the options available to us. At the moment, we’d like to give the court a chance to consider the matter and make a ruling on it,” Bapela said. “Once the court has made a ruling, we’ll see what we have on the table. “We want to allow the court to go through its processes at the moment we are busy with election programme, we are a few months away from an election, we are not sleeping, we are working.” With the current term of office of MPs and members of provincial legislatures ending in May next year, the IEC recently told Parliament that it was preparing to host elections between May 8 and August 7 next year. There are also talks within the ANC for President Cyril Ramaphosa to encourage an early election to benefit from the growing mood of optimism inside and outside the ANC over his
election as president. The IEC is also preparing to select three new commissions. The terms of IEC deputy chairperson Terry Tselane and IEC commissioner Bongani Finca expire later this year in November. bonolos@afrotone.co.za