South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (Saica) has announced that it would be instituting disciplinary proceedings against former Eskom Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Anoj Singh. This comes after Saica conducted an investigation into misconduct complaint which was laid against Singh by Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (OUTA) in September 2017. According to Saica, the professional body’s Conduct Committee said Singh was charged for conducting himself in a way that was “discreditable, dishonourable, dishonest, irregular or unworthy, or which is derogatory to the Institute, or tends to bring the profession of accountancy into disrepute”. He is also charged with failing to “maintain and adhere to the fundamental principles in the Saica Professional Code of Conduct for Chartered Accountants”. Saica said Singh has failed to maintain and adhere to the fundamental principles in the Saica Professional Code of Conduct for Chartered Accountants, which include integrity, objectivity, confidentiality and professional behaviour. “Mr Anoj Singh failed to comply with relevant laws and regulations and to avoid any conduct that he knew or should have known may discredit the accountancy profession. This includes conduct that a reasonable third party, weighing all the specific facts and circumstances available to him at that time, would be likely to conclude adversely affects the good reputation of the profession.” He has 21 days to provide Saica with a response to the charges referred and according to Saica, once his response is received, the Saica secretariat will review the response and table the matter for adjudication before the Professional Conduct Committee. “Details of the subsequent disciplinary hearing will be provided to all stakeholders once such details have been confirmed with the relevant Professional Conduct Committee chairperson and panel.” The former CFO, who has been implicated by many former Eskom executives during Department of Public Enterprise’s inquiry into State capture at Eskom and other parastatals faces a fine of R250 000 per charge if found guilty or having his Saica membership suspended for a period not exceeding 12 months, or subsequently refer the complaint  to the Disciplinary Committee. Saica said all disciplinary were not open to the public and members appearing before the Professional Conduct Committee were not permitted legal representation. -Afro Voice Reporter