TRIPLE murderer Henri van Breda was a remorseless killer and the violence he displayed during the murder of his parents and brother was cold-blooded, excessive and gratuitous. This was how Western Cape High Court judge Siraj Desai described the brutal attack by Van Breda on his family on that fateful day in January 2015. “The crimes were committed with a high level of innate cruelty and with unbridled violence against his immediate family,” Desai said. He handed Van Breda three life terms for the murder of his father, Martin, mother, Teresa and brother, Rudi and 15 years for the attempted murder of his sister, Marli. Van Breda, who had pleaded not guilty to all the charges said he would appeal against both the conviction and sentences. The application is set to be heard on June 27. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) yesterday said they would oppose the application. Desai said Van Breda had failed to take the court into his confidence. “You have not told the court what precipitated these crimes. “The court found it was you who launched a savage and continuous attack upon the victims. You survived with inconsequential injuries. It displays a level of an unprecedented regard for your parents and family.” Van Breda was given the opportunity to tell the court why he committed the heinous crimes, which the shameless killer brushed aside. The brutal murders at the family’s De Zalze estate were a killing spree “without a hint of regret, of penitence”. Van Breda showed no mercy to his victims and likewise the court also did not show any clemency. These aggravating factors were pivotal in the judge sentencing him to three life terms and the 15 years imprisonment for the attempted murder of his sister. The sentences are to run concurrently, meaning he will spend 25 years behind bars before becoming eligible for parole. The judge said Van Breda hacked three people to death with an axe and attempted to do the same to a fourth person and had not told the court why he had committed these monstrous crimes. “They were cold-blooded and the violence was excessive and gratuitous to cause maximum harm.” The judge said defence lawyer Piet Botha simply and bluntly raised two mitigating factors in Van Breda’s favour – his age and the fact that he had no previous criminal convictions. He said while he lacked maturity he was on the cusp of entering adulthood. Elaborating on Van Breda being diagnosed with juvenile epilepsy, the judge said the information of the illness was not set out in great detail and the court did not know the impact that incarceration would have on this. He reiterated, however, that society expected such serious crimes to be evaluated with sufficient seriousness and although Van Breda may not have previous criminal convictions, his conduct warranted the most severe jail sentence. NPA spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila welcomed the sentences and said: “It has been a long three years especially working with circumstantial evidence. “Credit must go to the two teams from Stellenbosch, as well as the state prosecutors who ensured that we secured convictions on all charges. “Van Breda has stated several times he is innocent and did not commit any of these crimes and that the intruder was a black man. Unfortunately we were not in a position to find that black man.” vincentc@afrotone.co.za