A TOTAL of 150 ARV adherence clubs are to be rolled out across the country, in what could be a game changer in the fight against HIV in South Africa. The programme by Right to Care, an organisation that provides HIV and TB services, is aimed at increasing adherence to HIV treatment thereby curbing drug resistance caused by non adherence to treatment. This is not the first time ART adherence clubs are being piloted in SA, with Doctors Without Borders having previously piloted an award-winning model in Khayelitsha, Cape Town. Right to Care said the programme could help SA meet the UNAids
90/90/90 targets. “We are scaling up adherence clubs in SA to help patients attending public health facilities who have to take medication every day stay on their treatment and remain healthy. “The focus is on people taking antiretroviral therapy (ART) who are clinically stable and includes those on ART who also have non-communicable diseases such as hypertension and diabetes,” programme coordinator at Right to Care, Xabiso Mjiwu said. This is as the failure to adhere to ART treatment can lead to first-line drug resistance in patients who then have to be put on expensive second and third line treatment. HIV drug resistance has been identified by the World Health Organisation as a threat to efforts to end Aids by 2030 saying higher levels of HIVDR will lead to more resources being used to treat patients. The 2017 WHO HIV Drug Resistance report found that more than 10% of people starting ARV treatment had a strain of HIV resistant to some of the most widely used HIV drugs in six of the 11 countries surveyed in Africa, Asia and Latin America. Adherence clubs will be rolled out in six provinces including Gauteng, Mpumalanga,
Free State, KZN and the Eastern and Western Cape. The organisation said it will work with various community based organisations including religious and farm workers organisations in implementing the programme. “Adherence clubs are open to patients on life-long medication who are doing well but need assistance in adhering to their treatment regimens. Clubs are linked to high volume healthcare facilities and typically comprise about 30 people who meet every second month,” Mjiwu said. The clubs will be run by adherence club facilitators, Right To Care said. leratod@afrotone.co.za