Free State Premier Sisi Ntombela has condemned the Executive Mayor of Dihlabeng Local Municipality in the Eastern Free State Lindiwe Makhalema for allegedly referring to President Cyril Ramaphosa as a sellout. Ntombela said Makhalema is expected to know that her words amounted to defamation of character against Ramaphosa. The Premier was reacting to a report by the Citizen newspaper which said that Makhalema called Ramaphosa a sell out on a facebook group belonging to verified ANC members called Loyal ANC Members which boasts 80 000 members. According to the report and Facebook screenshot, Makhalema refused to apologise and to retract her utterances when some members of the group pleaded with her to do so given her position. “On behalf of the Free State Provincial government, I would like to denounce the utterances by Cllr Makhalema with the highest degree of contempt,” Ntombela said in a statement. Ntombela said she has already engaged Makhalema on her “unfortunate remarks, and she has agreed that her conduct was regrettable. She said Ramaphosa, as a president of the country, deserved to be respected by all, especially senior leaders of government who are expected to lead by example. “We shall not tolerate any amount of disrespect towards our leadership,” Ntombela said. Dihlabeng Municipality Spokesperson Tseliso Maitse said accusations against the mayor were all part of an orchestrated campaign to discredit her. Maitse said this looked like a well-tailored political play to tarnish her image, which included the unlawful use of her personal account to advance this mischievous agenda. “We have witnessed multiple accounts registered in her name, we are seeking advice on this matter which will guide us on our next step,”Maitse said. Ntombela Spokesperson Tiisetso Mokhele said there is no action that the premier can take against Makhalema as she was a deployed to that position by the ANC. Repeated attempts to get a comment from Free State ANC Spokesperson Thabo Meeko were unsuccessful. -Afro Voice Reporter