HAVING failed to qualify for the Fifa Women’s World Cup previously, Banyana Banyana coach Desire Ellis says the wait will finally be over this year. Despite qualifying for the Olympics twice, Banyana are yet to qualify for a World Cup and failed at the final qualifying hurdle in the last two editions. This year in Ghana, they will attempt to qualify for the World Cup in France and Ellis said it’s about time they pay back the trust shown by the South African Football Association and their sponsor, Sasol. They will compete at the CAF Africa Women’s Championship later this year after beating Lesotho 7-0 on aggregate to book their place in the competition. Should they finish in the top three, they will book a place in the Women’s World Cup and Ellis is positive that they will achieve that this time. “As I said it before, the U-17 has qualified, they set a benchmark and it’s not negotiable. I think it’s almost like payback time where we have to pay back Safa and Sasol for the wonderful support they have given us,” Ellis said yesterday. “And for the everyone else who has supported us, I think it is up to the players as well. They all know what is at stake and they know how important it is collectively that we achieve it.” Having failed to qualify for the World Cup in 2016 as caretaker coach, Ellis highlighted the lessons learnt there which they have been working on. “The players are really motivated, we know it is a huge task, make no mistake. In 2014 we lost out the third place in the play-offs. I think we repeated the same thing in 2016 where we had a lot of opportunities. “We have been working at training each and every day on our finishing. The onus is on the players to go back and work on the finishing because we have shown in a lot of games that we have created but we need to finish.” Ellis said if they had to call on the likes of Phil Masinga and Mark Williams for help, then they would do so as they want to leave no stone unturned. “If we can convert 10% of the chances that we create, we will be up there. Each and every training we will continue working on our finishing and other areas of our game. “We need to improve as a team each and every time. It is going to be a tough fight but it is achievable.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@afrotone.co.za