CONSUMERS of imported goods and motorists should brace for more pain at the petrol pump as the rand continues to depreciate. At R13.50/$, the unit is now among the worst performing currencies in emerging markets. Analysts are pencilling in a range around R14.50/$, which will not only hit motorists filling up their tanks but also the price of most goods and services as very few do not have a transport component in their costs. Last week the petrol price hit its highest ever in the country at a weighty R15.79 a litre. The way prices have been rising, can R20/l be far off, economists are asking. Now motorists are paying R15.54/l for 93 octane and R15.79/l for 95 octane inland. “The rand depreciated to its lowest level since December 2017 on emergingmarket (EM) risk aversion ahead of Friday’s G7 summit and this week’s US Federal Reserve, European Central Bank and Bank of Japan meetings,” RMB economist Mpho Tsebe said. “Although there was broad-based weakness in EM, the rand was one of the worst-performing currencies, as peers raised interest rates and concerns around SA’s current account deficit grow,” Tsebe said. She said at the same time, the first quarter GDP data and April’s manufacturing data were disappointing and made for distressing reading. However, Tsebe said the rand was not alone on this roller coaster as other EM currencies were left reeling, with the Brazilian real, Russian rouble and Mexican peso among the worst-affected currencies. “Emerging market currencies will remain vulnerable to risk sentiment ahead of key events,” she said. Some economists and market analysts said it appeared that consumers are facing further turbulent times ahead as the hike in the petrol price will impact on inflation and that goods transportation will pass the punishing fuel price increase onto consumers. Consumer expert Keorapetse Raditsela said consumers will likely see an uptick in prices at the supermarket shelves. “Recently, TransUnion published a report which indicated that the majority of car owners are defaulting on their monthly repayments. “Now taking an expensive exercise of keeping your car on the roads as a result of higher and rocketing petrol prices, this will make the situation even worse,” she said. Eskom economist Mandla Maleka concurred and said that the continuing weakness of the rand and the increasing price of Brent crude oil (the international benchmark for oil prices) added to the nightmare for households. “This could even put the Reserve Bank under pressure to hike rates (if inflation gets out of hand). But it will be unwise to hike rates as this will make the lives of consumers even more unbearable,” he said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@afrotone.co.za