DESPITE the recent waning of business and consumer confidence and poor numbers coming out of economic indicators, credit ratings agencies continue to give the country the benefit of the doubt. On Friday, Fitch Ratings affirmed its rating of South Africa at the top level of non-investment (junk) status, but warned that low growth and sizeable government debt were weighing heavily on the economy. Fitch kept SA’s rating at BB+ with a stable outlook, as expected, after a host of meetings with public and private sector role players in recent weeks. Some key economic indicators have been disappointing of late, the worst showing that GDP growth for the first quarter tumbled by 2.2%. The rating agency also highlighted once again that SA has the “highest inequality in the world”. Last month, SA received a reprieve from S&P Global Ratings, which left the country’s credit rating unchanged, in line with market expectations. In respond to Fitch’s assessment, the national Treasury said the government fully recognised Fitch’s assessment of challenges and opportunities the country faces in the immediate to long term. “Concluding critical policies, such as the Mining Charter, remains important for providing policy certainty in the country. “Tangible progress has been achieved on most of the 14 confidence boosting measures and this is expected to translate into improved investor confidence,” the Treasury said. In addition, the Treasury said the recent changes in governance in critical SOEs and the 2018 Budget which outlined decisive and specific policy measures to strengthen the fiscal framework are expected to improve the investment climate of SA. “Collaboration with the government, business, labour and civil society continues to yield necessary interventions to positioning SA as an attractive investment destination while also creating an enabling policy environment for inclusive economic growth,” the Treasury said. Economist Raymond Parsons said the widely expected decision by rating agency Fitch to reaffirm SA’s sovereign rating at sub-investment grade with a stable outlook is nonetheless welcome and is aligned with S&P Global’s decision last month to also keep its similar rating unchanged. “The Fitch analysis recognises the incipient economic recovery in SA and the potential improvements in governance that are emerging. “These considerations have rightly supported its latest decision to leave the country’s investment rating unchanged at this stage. “However, it is clear from the Fitch analysis that the SA economy is not yet out of the woods,” Parsons said. He said continued low economic growth, high government debt, contingent liabilities and the highest inequality in the world remain serious concerns for Fitch. “Favourable factors, on the other hand, include a healthy banking sector, strong institutions and deep local capital markets. “But Fitch’s narrative implies that there remain serious economic vulnerabilities in SA and the country therefore needs to use the breathing space wisely to steadily correct these problems. “There are nonetheless encouraging factors on which to build a better economic performance in the months ahead, including the recent change in political leadership,” he said. Parsons said positive factors could still outweigh the negative ones as the months unfold, and that the present outlook is for a growth rate of about 1.5% in 2018. “Going forward, economic recovery and structural reform must therefore remain top priorities for SA,” Parsons said. Adding to the country’s woes was the load shedding at the weekend but good news was progress with the mining charter. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@afrotone.co.za