COMPETITION authorities should closely monitor the Mercantile Bank sale, and make sure that the outcome challenges the monopoly of established banks and gives new entrants an opportunity to create a black-owned bank. This was the view of BEE commentators on the news that four frontrunners had been identified as possible buyers of the specialist South African bank that is 100% owned by the Portuguese government. The frontrunners are Capitec, SA’s biggest bank by customers, big five commercial bank Nedbank, the Public Investment Corporation (PIC) and a consortium comprising Arise BV and Grindrod Bank. Arise is an African investment company backed by Dutch and Norwegian shareholders. Mercantile was the first bank in SA to focus on entrepreneurs and small businesses. Transformation promoters who have been calling for SA to have a majority black-owned bank view the Mercantile sale as an opportunity for teh government to realise the vision of a state bank and a good start for those calling for the establishment of a black bank. Adrian Lerole, a consultant and commentator on BEE, said this was a chance for blacks to snap up a bank and become majority shareholders. “However, the competition watchdogs must monitor the deal to make sure there is no over-concentration or manipulation of the market, especially from the traditional big banks. “Radical economic transformation is a must and authorities must deal strongly with monopoly issues,” he said. Caixa Geral de Depósitos (CGD), which owns Mercantile, said it had received 18 non-binding offers for Mercantile after it announced its intention to sell the bank last year as part of a strategic plan approved by the European Commission. The criteria used for potential buyers focused on price, financial capacity and strategy. Capitec’s market capitalisation is more tham R101bn, Nedbank’s over R140bn while PIC is managing public sector funds worth more than R1.9 trillion. Deon Botha, head of corporate affairs at PIC said: “It is necessary to state that the sale of Mercantile Bank is a competitive process undertaken by the seller. Until a transaction for the acquisition of Mercantile Bank is successfully concluded, the PIC would not be in a position to publicly disclose the details about its role and participation in this process, including its strategy.” The entire process is expected to be finalised by the end of the year. Some analysts called on the ANC to support the PIC in realising the dream of a state, or majority black-owned bank, that will cater for black small businesses and entrepreneurs. Professional lobby group the Association of Black Securities and Investment Professionals (Absip) reiterated that a lack of “political will” is the main structural barrier to a black-owned bank. Duma Gqubule, transformation advocate and an expert in the financial services sector, said a move by the PIC into this space “was long overdue”. “There are now three opportunities for creating a black-owned bank. The African Bank, in which the government is the majority shareholder, Post Bank and now Mercantile. Among the three a significant black bank can be formed,” Gqubule said. He said black role players and the ruling party should focus on these assets and at least have two banks where blacks can have control. “The PIC is relevant given the fact that it owns R202bn assets in the financial sector, which is equivalent to 11% of the sector. “Further, the PIC holds 13% of Standard Bank, 12% of Sanlam and 11% of Old Mutual. It is time for the PIC to use this power it has in the financial sector,” he said. However, Gqubule said although a black-owned bank was needed, we must go beyond a black bank by “increasing state involvement” in the financial sector. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@afrotone.co.za