MDANTSANE cluster police and the community policing forum (CPF) visited initiation schools in the Bluewater policing precinct this week to ensure that initiates were safe. Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Zweli Mkhize said the Customary Initiation Bill seeks to monitor initiation from the national down to the local levels. “It ensures that all relevant stakeholders are properly involved in the initiation practice and criminalises any act that is against the law,” Mkhize said. This comes after Deputy Minister Obed Bapela joined MEC Fikile Xasa and National House and the Provincial Houses of Traditional Leaders to launch the initiation season at Bumbane Great Place in the Eastern Cape last week. Meanwhile, in Limpopo the cooperative, human settlement and traditional affairs department will work with the department of health to ensure effective and efficient activities are carried out responsibly this season. Spokesperson Motupa Selomo said this year’s initiation school programme had already commenced from Saturday and will end on July 22. There will be no extensions from this end period. “We have received a total of 455 applications to run initiation schools. The cut-off date for the receiving of these applications was March, following a circular that was issued calling for applications on December 15,” Selomo said. He said Limpopo had an impressive record of running cultural initiation schools. “Traditional leadership at all levels in the province has institutionalised the practice with effective governance systems. We want to commend all the relevant stakeholders and encourage them to keep to that standard. In an effort to prevent the unnecessary loss of lives, we request parents to send their children to the initiation schools that are approved,” Selomo said. “Initiation rites are a necessary cultural practice of our African communities, as are arms and legs natural and necessary extensions of the human body. These rites are critical to individual and community development and it should not to be taken for granted that people automatically grow and develop into responsible, communityorientated adults. “The process of initiation concerns undergoing a fundamental set of rites to start a new phase or beginning in life. It marks the passing from one phase of life to the next more mature phase. Initiation fundamentally has to do with transformation and is a central component of traditional African cultures.” -SISANDA MADWANTSI|sisandam@afrotone.co.za