THE Department of Arts and Culture (DAC) has apologised for the incorrect date on display banners highlighting the 42 years that have passed since the Soweto uprising at the main youth day rally in Soweto on Saturday. The rally, addressed by President Cyril Ramaphosa, attracted a disappointingly small crowd. Social media users were quick to pick up on the embarrassing discrepancy on the banners situated on either side of the performance stage, which read 1967-2018 instead of 1976-2018. Gauteng education MEC Panyaza Lesufi said he was among those who took offence at the mistake. “No excuse! Embarrassing indeed!” Lesufi tweeted. Asanda Magaqa, spokesperson for the Department of Arts and Culture, apologised to South Africans who were offended that a landmark date like June 1976 could have been so badly distorted on the banners. “While this poster is not of the DAC’s doing and mindful that the organising committee of all national day events comprises a committee of representatives of the three spheres of the government – national, provincial and local governments including the Presidency and Government Communication and Information System – the committee also comprises the relevant government agency that talks to the theme for the day,” she said. “Where the poster that had caused perturbation (and I would like to emphasise that it was not procured by the DAC) is concerned, the committee will seek answers and accountability from the agency responsible for procuring it, as shoddy workmanship cannot be tolerated.” Spokesperson for the National Youth Development Agency Lerato Gambu said the agency was also apologetic. “The NYDA does not want to speculate and be suggestive. We feel that those who were responsible will have to explain in terms of what happened, obviously there will be a debrief on the matter,” he said. He blamed the poor attendance at the rally to the decentralisation of celebrations to the provinces. “We had agreed that we must decentralise the celebration of Youth Day because it cannot be only about Soweto as the struggle in Soweto was a culmination of what was happening across the country,” Gambu said. “Part of the attendance issue was that every province had its own celebration and therefore not everyone was part of the main event.” In his keynote address, Ramaphosa said the government had done much through its public employment programmes and investment in infrastructure to give priority to young people and women. He said the challenge for unemployed youths was not only one of skills because even young people who have completed university degrees remained unemployed. “This is a vast pool of skills and knowledge that is being wasted. Society has invested a great deal in the education of these young people, but our economy is not benefiting from this investment,” the president said. He urged employers to understand that for South Africa to succeed and their businesses to thrive, they should take responsibility for providing young people with the work experience they need. -HLONI MASHIGO|hlonim@afrotone.co.za