The majority of the vehicles on our road owe their DNA to what came long before the 21st century. They are among the best modern day cars. You can take your pick but some of the greatest includes the Alfa Romeo Giulia, Fiat 500, Jeep, Land Rover and the Mercedes-Benz S-Class. Any list without the Mini is incomplete but the link to the older one courtesy of the icon Mr Bean, played by Rowan Atkinson, a McLaren fan, is impossible to gauge in the 21st century given that it is no more than a glorified Beemer. Throw into the mix their non-existent PR department and I don’t give a hoot for the Mini, even the historic BMW brand, for that matter. Arrogance will be the end of their brands, seen anything great from Mini or BMW recently? Anyway, let sleeping brands rest on their laurels while the world fabulously moves on. This week we celebrate two Italian icons. And we’re not even talking Ferrari, although their DNA has found its way into both of these gems. We’re talking two youthful but mature vehicles from the country shaped like a football boot, though sadly, they will be missing when the World Cup kicks off on June 14. There will be no Italy at the world’s showpiece football tournament. But that has not stopped South Africa’s ambassador to Italy, Shirish Soni, from taking the opportunity to keep Italians hooked on the wonders of South Africa through our late former president Nelson Mandela and Albertina Sisulu at the RomeFilmFest later this year, along with stimulating business ties between the two nations. Italy is already entrenched in South Africa thanks to the motoring world but one can see Soni unlocking more from pastaland with Alitalia flying directly to South Africa – please send me. For now, I will drive Italian, though, and indeed, it was a welcome ride recently getting into the amazingly fast Alfa Romeo Giulia which feels 56 years rich in history and doing amazingly well. When you look at pictures of the original, you can only be amazed at the wonderful transformation. This is a beautiful modern car, with the bells and whistles that take the brand to another level. With a zesty 2.0 litre petrol engine inspired by the prancing horse, Ferrari, spurting 147kW of power, this Alfa Romeo is truly special, offering excellent fuel consumption which again is a key factor as motorists since midnight on Wednesday will have to fork out more at the pumps. The Department of Energy must love the global rise in oil prices as it takes them off the hook about the grossly high taxes motorists have to pay. Motorists have to look for vehicles that provide value for money. They don’t come any better that this powerful Alfa Romeo Giulia. But the evergreen Fiat 500 is also better than any old scrap. You would be driving a little car that has sold 4 million units since its birth in 1957. This car transcends the generations and has seen the world like no other vehicle, though one may argue that the Isuzu bakkie at 80, may have seen more. But this best-loved car in Fiat’s history, has already earned its place in history as an exhibit in the Museum of Modern Art, in New York, honoured for its artistic and cultural value. Would you believe they even had a pink Barbie version of this grand dame of Italian cars? The Fiat 500 Arbath is a sprightly customer also with Ferrari in its cool DNA, also in its tiny engine. Who would have thought that Alfa Romeo Giulia and the Fiat 500 which arrived long before some of us, let alone the millennials, would still be leading the way in the 21st century? May they score the glorious goals in a World Cup year. -EDWIN NAIDU