Funding for research is one of the major challenges for those pursuing top level scientific studies. This is according to PhD student and Council for Scientific and Industrial Research researcher Jane Segobola, who plans “to shape and reduce” the gender gap in fields based on science, technology, engineering and maths (Stem). She says society needs to make an effort to ensure that female scientists receive more financial support. “More effort is needed to break down biases about women scientists, to support them from a very young age, so that young girls can have the freedom and confidence to pursue their
careers. “Also, more women PhD graduates are needed, therefore universities must be encouraged to increase their numbers,” Segobola said. The 33-year-old scientist is a PhD student at the University of Pretoria and was born in Polokwane, Limpopo. Segobola’s research explores the unique South African soil sampled at Kogelberg biosphere reserve, using metaviromic techniques to identify and characterise nucleic acid
manipulating enzymes. Her work is part of a project the CSIR initiated. It uses bio-prospecting techniques to extract value from the unique microbes in the Kogelberg biosphere reserve soil. She said the research she is doing is of global importance and contributes to the key components of the commercial-based research coming from the CSIR. “I am thrilled by the dynamic path of research that we are doing. “I have published research papers based on work that is novel and that makes me feel like I have contributed something to science. “Also presenting my work at international and local conferences thrills me,” Segobola said. The ambitious mother of two and wife shared her future career plans, which involved continuing her research. “As part of the start-up initiative (Cape Bio), our future plans are to mature the nucleic acid manipulating enzymes discovered during my PhD studies, into products and commercialise
them to contribute to the science world, creating jobs and enhancing the bio-economy,” she said. KEITUMETSI MOTLHALE | keitumetsim@afrotone.co.za