RESIDENTS of the small farming town of Jacobsdal in the Letsemeng local municipality have called on Premier Sisi Ntombela to intervene as they continue to suffer water cuts. They said they have been experiencing water restrictions since the beginning of the year. The water limitations are a result of the R37m debt that the municipality has with water supplier Bloem Water. Letsemeng also has jurisdiction over Koffiefontein, Jacobsdal, Luckhoff, Oppermansgronde and Petrusburg. The Letsemeng population is estimated to be about 40000. Residents who spoke to Afro Voice said they were struggling to keep up with household issues because of water restrictions. They said they received water for two hours in the morning and an hour in the evening. “We have to wake up very early to get water from 6-8am and again from 6-7pm if it happens that you did not get water by then you are in trouble for the rest of the evening,” community member Dennis Oliphant said. He said as far as he was concerned he had been paying his water bill and he was baffled by the water cuts. Another resident, Pulane Ntaba, said even embarking on protests had not helped their situation. She said the only person who could come to their rescue was Ntombela. Maria Manasi who is an emerging farmer said her livestock were suffering due to lack of water and urged the provincial government to come to the party. “As you can see, I’m not working I depend on these few sheep to make a living and if there is no water they can’t live for long, we depend on nearby farms and water tanks,” she said. Letsemeng mayor Thandi Reachable said the water cuts were a serious thing that affected communities enormously. “We are aware of the debt that we owe Bloem Water and we are working around the clock to make sure we come to some sort of arrangement with the department of water and sanitation and Bloem Water. We will also be engaging the provincial government to assist with the water challenges,” she said The departmental spokesperson Kido Thoabala previously said they had come up with different ways to recover the outstanding debt. -MICHAEL TLHAKUDI|michaelt@afrotone.co.za