IS SOUTH Africa’s public healthcare system collapsing? The answer, it seems, depends on who you ask. Even though Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi hit back at his detractors who said the public health system was collapsing, he did admit it was in a state of distress. However, the minister was adamant the country had also made major breakthroughs in the provision of healthcare in the country. He said 300000 tuberculosis (TB) patients were being treated in SA as the country carried a high burden of TB, including drug-resistant TB. Motsoaledi revealed this during a media briefing on Tuesday where he was at pains to deny claims that the country’s public healthcare system had collapsed. He said SA was the first country to upscale in the use of TB diagnostic and latest TB treatment. TB remains the number one killer in SA followed by diabetes, according to the latest Mortality and Causes of Death report by Statistics SA. “As far as we know 40% of all GeneXpert cartridges used to diagnose TB in the world is in the South African public sector. Of the total number of people globally on the new TB treatment bedaquiline, 60% of them are in our country,” he said. Figures by the department indicate that TB deaths had declined by over 50% with 33063 people dying of the disease in 2015, when compared to 69 251 in 2009. Motsoaledi also said that SA ran the world’s biggest HIV treatment programme with 4.2 million people being catered for. Figures revealed the number of babies born with HIV had significantly declined over the years. In 2004, 70000 were born HIV-positive but the figure had dropped to 4 500. Motsoaledi also revealed that more than 2 million pregnant mothers had been registered on the MomConnect programme while 2.2 million had been out on the Central Chronic Medication Dispensing and Distribution and no longer collected their chronic medicine at healthcare facilities. His revelations came amid grave criticism over the state of the public healthcare system which many say is collapsing. The criticism comes on the backdrop of numerous healthcare challenges including the oncology crisis, the health meltdown in provinces that has played out in the media in the last few days. The chaotic protests that took place at Charlotte Maxeke Academic Hospital over the payment of bonuses in the past few days had not only led to the disruption of services increased surgery backlogs, it had also revealed tension between the leadership and
unions. While Charlotte Maxeke got all the media attention, similar protests were taking place at Leratong and Yusef Dadoo hospitals over the same issue. Lack of oncology machines, ageing equipment, shortage of radiographers, long waiting lists for cancer treatment and the increasing demand for cancer services were just some of the problems facing Gauteng and KZN provinces. leratod@afrotone.co.za