IT’S high noon in Parliament today for public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane when a portfolio committee will decide if it should hold an inquiry into her fitness to hold office – with the DA determined to end her tenure. The DA yesterday vowed to use today’s meeting of the justice and correctional services portfolio committee to continue to fight “to protect the office of the public protector” by ensuring its integrity was restored – by removing Mkhwebane and ensure that a suitably qualified person was appointed in her place. DA chief whip John Steenhuisen said he had repeatedly asked speaker Baleka Mbete that Mkhwebane be removed from her post. “The DA maintains that it has long been apparent that advocate Mkhwebane is grossly unfit to hold office and has made requests dating as far back as September 2017 calling on the speaker to institute proceedings to remove her. “The shockingly poor quality of the work that Mkhwebane has produced during her tenure as public protector speaks for itself.” Steenhuisen claimed that Mkhwebane had consistently demonstrated that she fell far short of the required expertise necessary to hold the office of such a pivotal institution. At every turn she had displayed a “fundamental misunderstanding” of her powers and the fundamentals of the Constitution. It was on the basis of her fundamental misunderstanding of the basic principles of the Constitution that her findings this week against the premier of the Western Cape, Helen Zille, are part of a “growing list of abject findings” by her. “Her findings have no basis in law and if unchallenged have profoundly negative constitutional implications. The content of Zille’s tweets were the subject of a settlement between her and the party and resulted in a public apology from Zille.” The DA has made it clear that it did not in any way support the merits of the tweets at the time. “We have never condoned the content of Zille’s tweets.” However, Mkhwebane’s ruling has profound constitutional implications that spoke to her fundamental misunderstanding of the powers of the public protector, Steenhuisen said. In addition, he said, there was a raft of other cases in which Mkhwebane had displayed ignorance of the law. These included the Absa Bank matter where she demonstrated “spectacular bias and did not adhere to the constitutional principle of procedural fairness and also the Vrede Dairy project matter in which she ignored pertinent questions and failed to deal with evidence implicating … ruling party office bearers”. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN