LAST month saw house prices increasing faster than the previous month, giving hope that improved sentiment is starting to breathe life into the moribund sector. FNB’s house price index showed prices growing by a 4.6%, year-on-year, up from the previous month’s 3.8%, and from a February low of 2.8%. “This third consecutive month of house price growth acceleration is an early sign that significantly improved is beginning to impact positively on the housing market and house price growth,” John Loos, FNB’s household and property sector strategist, said. The early-2018 market strengthening has also been seen in other non-price FNB indicators, notably the increased Estate Agent Survey’s Residential Activity Rating, as well as in a shorter estimated average time of homes on the market prior to sale in the first quarter of this year, Loos said. In recent years, the index underwent a broad multi-year slowdown in year-onyear growth, all the way from an 8.6% high as at May 2014 to a lowly 2.8% by February 2018. Initially, rising interest rates from January 2014 to January 2016 were seen as the key cause of slowing growth. Thereafter, very weak economic growth arguably played the key role, and by 2017 very weak domestic consumer confidence, possibly inspired by adverse political conditions at the time. But sentiment appeared to turn significantly more positive late in 2017 after a change in ANC leadership, followed by Cyril Ramaphosa’s election as president, Loos said. “Add to this a mild acceleration in year-on-year economic growth rates as the quarters ticked by in 2017 and a further 25 basis point interest rate cut in the 1st quarter of 2018 and that should be expected to translate into some form of housing market strengthening,” Loos said, adding that it was therefore not surprising to see an uptick in year-on-year house price growth in recent months, from that low of 2.8% in February to 4.6% in May. While it is too early to draw conclusions regarding any sustained recovery in the housing market, there are other FNB indicators which also pointed to early signs of strengthening early in 2018. Estate agents reported a significant jump in residential market activity in the bank’s February quarterly survey in which respondents are asked to provide a rating of market activity in their areas. After a broad decline through 2015 to 2017, the first quarter 2018 FNB Activity Rating jumped noticeably from 5.29 in the previous quarter to 6.18 (rated on a scale of 1-10). “Even on a seasonally adjusted basis, the jump was the most noticeable in over three years, from 5.4 in the prior quarter to 5.79,” Loos said. Further support for the perception of a strengthened housing market in the first quarter of 2018 was provided by a shortening in the estimated average time of homes on the market prior to sale, from 17 weeks and two days in the final quarter of 2017 to 14 weeks and one day, according to the Estate Agent survey. FNB said that at 4.6% y/y, house price growth is near to being positive in real terms, when adjusting for inflation. “Real y/y house price deflation of -0.6% was recorded in April, with CPI inflation in that month measuring 4.5% year-on-year and house price growth 3.8%,” Loos said. “But the May house price growth rate of 4.6% appears to be fast catching up with CPI inflation.” – AfroVoice Reporters