PRESIDENT Cyril Ramaphosa, who has resolved to donate half of his presidential salary to a fund that will be managed by the Nelson Mandela Foundation, has confirmed in a three-page declaration published in Parliament’s register of members’ interests that he is one of the wealthiest politicians serving the nation. The 534-page register, which did not contain any information about former president Jacob Zuma, because presidents are not MPs, was released in Parliament yesterday by the co-chairpersons of the joint ethics committee Amos Masondo and Aumsen Singh. At a media briefing, it was also disclosed the committee had considered 36 cases, 16 of which have been finalised, while 10 were ready for consolidation, eight were still being investigated and two were awaiting finalisation. Among the matters before the committee is that of former state security minister Bongani Bongo, who has been accused of trying to bribe the evidence leader in the state capture inquiry, advocate Ntuthuzelo Vanara. Also under scrutiny is former higher education deputy minister Mduduzi Manana. Singh also said at the media conference that 42 MPs had failed to meet the deadline of September 30 last year to submit their disclosures. They have subsequently made up for this lapse. “The committee resolved the failure to submit is a breach of the code. Implicated members will be given an opportunity to say why they should not be penalised for breaching the code.” Both Masondo and Singh declined to name the 42 MPs or say whether they included members of the executive. “We are saying there’s a process in place. The declaration applies to all members,” was all that Masondo was willing to say. Because he made his declaration before he became president in February, the peep into President Ramaphosa’s interests is the last one the public will get because the President of South Africa’s lists his declaration in a private register held by the Cabinet secretary. In his entry, President Ramaphosa declared he had nothing to disclose about benefits derived from consultancies, sponsorships, or travels. He lists that he is a director of four meat abattoirs and two game farms. He said the value of the gifts was unknown. But among them were Ron Anejo Superior Rum, 26 Cuban cigars from the Cuban embassy and a bottle of Beluga Transatlantic Noble Russian vodka from the Russian ambassador. His property portfolio includes 30 townhouses in Johannesburg and two flats in Cape Town. EFF leader Julius Malema’s onepage declaration said he had nothing to disclose. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN|news@afrotone.co.za