Former Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Tony Leon has questioned Public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane’s fitness to hold office following her adverse findings against Western Cape Premier Hellen Zille. This comes after Mkhwebane on Monday announced her finding on an investigation she instituted following a complaint about Zille’s infamous Tweet, in which she seemed to suggest that colonialism was not all that bad. Mkhwebane found that Zille’s Tweet was likely to cause racial tension, divisions, and violence in South Africa. Mkhwebane also instructs the Speaker of the Western Cape Legislature to take “appropriate” action against Zille within 30 days. Leon on Monday responded to political analyst Gareth van Onselen’s Tweet which made a quip that Mkhwebane understood the constitution like animated character Homer Simpson understood Einstein’s theory of relativity. This Public Protector understands the constitution like Homer Simpson understands Einstein’s theory of relativity. https://t.co/j8czi3ZczH — Gareth van Onselen (@GvanOnselen) June 11, 2018 Leon replied that Mkhwebane’s ruling on Zille’s tweet was both bad and mad in law and offends in terms of her even understanding her own jurisdiction let alone the Constitution. The ruling on the Zille tweet is both bad and mad in law and offends in terms of her even understanding her own jurisdiction let alone the Constitution. If she now trawls Twitter for ‘persons of influence’ making ‘offensive’ comments there is no end to it but her end must be nigh — Tony Leon (@TonyLeonSA) June 11, 2018 Zille has indicated she will be taking Mkhwebane’s report on the judicial review. Meanwhile, Portfolio Committee on Justice and Correctional Services will on Wednesday hear DA Chief Whip John Steenhuisen’s request for it to hold an inquiry into Mkhwebane’s fitness to hold office. This comes after the same hearing was cancelled last week after Mkhwebane informed the committee that she would not be attending after an urgent family matter. -Afro Voice Reporter