IT IS do or die for England going into the second Test in Bloemfontein tomorrow. The Boks will be looking to make it two out of two and to wrap up the series but England must win in order to keep the series alive. After last weekend’s entertaining clash, supporters of both sides will be expecting another thriller in the City of Roses. Bok coach Rassie Erasmus has admitted that he expects a tough encounter against a wounded England side. “We might get the same close result but I was wrong with my predictions last week. Test match rugby is a tight affair and the two teams have now had enough time to analyse each other now so the score might be lower this time around.” Erasmus has made one change to the front row, with Frans Malherbe coming in for Wilco Louw who is not part of the match day squad. Malherbe will pack down with Tendai Mtawarira and Bongi Mbonambi. Franco Mostert continues his partnership with young RG Snyman at lock. “Frans was a starter a few months ago, competing with a guy like Coenie (Oosthuizen) before he got that longterm injury. He is back to full fitness and we will see how long he can last on Saturday.” Bok captain Siya Kolisi continues his loose forward duties together with Duane Vermeulen and first pick PieterSteph Du Toit. After his good run in the first Test, scrumhalf Faf de Klerk has retained his position to feed flyhalf Handre Pollard. S’bu Nkosi and his partner-incrime Aphiwe Dtyantyi will operate from the wings with Damian de Allende and Lukhanyo Am at centre. Willie le Roux will be the last line of defence as the Boks look to wrap up the series. Prop Mtawarira is set to earn his 100th Test cap, making him the first black African to achieve this feat. He joins the likes of former captain John Smit, Percy Montgomery and Bryan Habana who have passed the 100th Test mark. England coach Eddie Jones has kept on most of the players that played in the first Test, with captain Owen Farrell set to lead from the front. “We have had a good preparation this week and the intensity and executions in those sessions are going to put us in a good position for Saturday,” Jones said. ezekielk@afrotone.co.za