THE recent appointment of Stormers captain Siyamthanda Kolisi as the national rugby team’s captain for the forthcoming three-Test series against England has sparked discussion around transformation in the rugby fraternity. Many see his selection together with moves by the sport and education ministries this week to tackle sports development at the grassroots and school level, as a sign that sport transformation is on the way to being realised. However, analysts warn that there are still many hurdles before the playing fields are levelled, especially in rugby. The recent Eminent Persons Report underlined some of the challenges: “Rugby was one of the codes reflecting predominantly white representatives. Rugby performed dismally in the national administration profile for 2016-17, with 0% black African representation.” The report said “the black African demographic profile of rugby will need careful consideration”. The sport code also fared poorly in terms of the black African international representative team demographic profile. None of the rugby senior or underage male representative teams achieved the generic demographic guideline of 60%. The generic black demographic representation of senior teams were reported as 42% while black Africans sat only at 22%. In terms of national team managers, rugby scored 0% in black African, the same figure as the year before. Transformation analyst Ashwin Desai said while the appointment of Kolisi is a welcome move, it should not be confused as a “new dawn” in rugby. He said the appointment was a great opportunity for players like Kolisi and other top rugby players to expose the “continuing antitransformation” lobby in rugby. “To argue that this is a new dawn would be an incredible mistake because the racism and the white baaskap that permeates rugby is still intact and in fact this will give them cover to continue in the same way they did before because now they can say ‘here is a black man and he is a captain of the Boks’,” he said. “It could however be paving the way if people like Siya do not get co-opted and then become silenced by the fact that they have now reached the top. They themselves can be pioneers in sparking the talk about race and transformation.” Sport and Recreation Minister Thokozile Xasa said Kolisi’s appointment underlined that black players were capable. “It was just not out of enforcement but the talent is there and you can’t ignore that,” she said. “We are excited. It also forces us to accept that South Africa is a rainbow nation and that all federations must talk to the demographics of the country in a practical way because transformation is not about numbers playing but at leadership level. There’s also the economic element of sport so we must see also economic transformation.” She said the Sports and Recreation Department had to put together a transformation charter to give a framework of what was expected from sporting federations. However, she said, it was not very clear on details regarding exactly “what had to be achieved by when”. Xasa said it was clear that there were sports codes where quotas had to be implemented. The minister said notwithstanding the criticism of quotas, they “resulted in helping to expose the rugby players who today are excelling in the sport”. Xasa was speaking at the signing of a memorandum of understanding between her department and the Department of Basic Education on Wednesday. She said the memorandum was looking at “integrating and aligning what they do to sustain transformation in sport, starting with school sport”. “Infrastructure must be made available to communities, especially rural communities, to ensure that pupils get a fair chance to take part in sport,” Xasa said. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga said the lack of sporting facilities in schools was one of the biggest challenges preventing pupils from taking part in many sporting codes. The ownership of sports franchises remains largely in white hands and Sport and Recreation director-general Alex Moemi said that the South African Rugby Union had already come on board by agreeing that all sport franchises would have to meet transformation targets and franchises. “The minister has yet to issue such a directive (on the need for black franchises). Transformation is simply not a measure of counting how many black faces are on the field but to look at the totality of the picture, including procurement,” Moemi said. While not wanting to be drawn into the politics of rugby because of the internal process at Supersport following his recent controversial walkout midway through a TV programme after a tiff with Nick Mallet and Naas Botha, former Springbok winger Ashwin Willemse said Kolisi’s appointment was well deserved because he had proven himself in rugby. “He has written his name in the history books of rugby,” Willemse said. Saru president Mark Alexander believes that, “transformation doesn’t compromise excellence if the identification of the player is right and that transformation is as much about the change of attitude as it is about playing a numbers game.” Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu also welcomed the move. “It spoke to the hope we felt 24 years ago that we were developing a special society in which the cream would rise to the top regardless of colour or class.” The attitude of some traditional white rugby supporters flies in the face of transformation efforts. These die-hards were vocal in their displeasure at Kolisi’s selection in racist rants on social media. @abdomichael1 who said: “Just another quota player. SA rugby pushing transformation, why don’t they just make the whole team black and one white player?” Gerrie Classen posted on Facebook: “Now this is the right name and emblem because SA Rugby became a joke. Also change the colours as well because we are not a shadow of the once feared green and gold jersey in world rugby. Call them Proteas or something else because these are NOT Springboks. “The good players should go and play overseas. We are gatvol of politics in sport. Cheers SA Rugby, may you sink further into debt.” Johan Fourie also added his two cents worth in a thinly veiled attack: “Certainly a political selection. He’s lucky to be in the team, but he’s selected and it’s an honour. Good luck Siya, make the country proud.” Dr Willie Basson from the Eminent Persons Group on transformation in sport said comparatively speaking, rugby had made great progress but still had a long way to go to be truly and wholly transformed. He said the sport fraternity would need at least seven years to get to where they need to be. “The sport is approaching the 50% mark but they are not yet there by a long shot. I am confident that they will get there. There are pockets of resistance but they are slowly diminishing and once they have disappeared completely, we will have a truly transformed sport.” He said Kolisi’s appointment was a massive step in the right direction. lillians@afrotone.co.za