THE pork industry has been hit hard by listeriosis with the demand for processed meat dropping by 75%, for pork cold cuts declining by 50% and profits plummeting by 40%, Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies said in Parliament in reply to DA MP Annette Steyn about the impact of listeriosis. Davies said the Department of Trade and Industry conducted a preliminary economic analysis of the impact the listeriosis outbreak had on the meat processing industry. “This preliminary analysis will be followed up with a more comprehensive study to determine the wider economic and employment impact. Preliminary research to date suggests that the pork industry is the hardest hit. According to data from the Pork Producer’s Organisation, two plants and one abattoir have closed,” Davies said. The fact that some part of the private sector had allowed a highly deleterious lowering of standards in food safety pointed to the need for a strengthened and consolidated approach by the government, Davies said. “It is for this reason that the DTI is working with the Department of Health, Department of Forestry and Fisheries other national departments and the National Regulator for Compulsory Standards to establish a Food Safety Agency, with an attendant regulatory framework.” It was the government’s view that the long-term sustainability of the food sector and its ability to safeguard jobs rested on an optimal health and safety standards regulatory framework and also enforcement by the state, he said Relating how the crisis had been handled, Davies said once a National Institute for Communicable Diseases had established the existence of listeriosis in meat processing plants, the National Consumer Commission had issued a recall notice under the provisions of the National Consumer Commission and also in the overriding interests of public health. Steyn also asked Davies whether his department would provide rehabilitation relief to businesses in the meat processing industry that were in distress and also whether he and/or any senior official in his department had met with the specified businesses to understand their needs. He replied the DTI had an existing agro-processing incentive for which companies in the meat sector could apply. “Each application will be dealt with on its merits including with respect to whether or not the company has raised food safety and health standards and commits to raising competitiveness.” Senior DTI officials have also met with the South African Meat Processors Association where this was explained as well. news@afrotone.co.za -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN