SMALL Business Development Minister Lindiwe Zulu has set the sights of her department on creating conditions conducive for those creating jobs to thrive and contribute to job creation and employment. “We are determined to promote and inculcate an entrepreneurship culture among young people and to provide support to emerging entrepreneurs in the city of Ekurhuleni,” Zulu said. She made the comments at the recent launch of the Ekurhuleni West Centre For Entrepreneurship Rapid Youth Incubator in Katlehong, The incubation programme is part of the department’s goal to reduce youth unemployment. “Through this centre, we seek to provide young people with the theoretical knowledge and entrepreneurial skills to enable them to start and run successful enterprises,” the minister said. She expressed concern about the high failure rate of small businesses. “The high mortality rate of SMMEs is a matter of concern for us as the government. Given their sheer numbers and propensity to fail, it is critical to have interventions such as these that seek to ensure that SMMEs can be sustainable.” The rapid incubation programme allows graduates an entrepreneurial platform to commercialise their vocational skills and move them from “job seekers to job creators”. The programme seeks to utilise the skills of TVET graduates to promote an entrepreneurship culture and providing the participants with the necessary tools and techniques to establish their own businesses and thus contributing to economic growth and job creation and employment. “Youth-targeted interventions are needed to enable young South Africans to actively participate and engage in society and the economy. “The marginalisation of young people is primarily manifested in high youth unemployment. “In a job-scarce environment, joining the world of work is particularly difficult for young people but this not just a problem for South Africa only,” the minister said. The new Rapid Incubator will assist youth-owned start-ups with the necessary infrastructure to overcome some of the barriers identified in their entrepreneurial journey. Centres for entrepreneurship which the department is launching across the country are dedicated to promoting entrepreneurship, venture-creation and economic development through the higher education system, including universities and TVET colleges. They drive the creation of early stage youth-owned enterprises both in the universities and colleges and provide a support platform to existing businesses outside the university or college establishment and surrounding catchment. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@afrotone.co.za