DISGRUNTLED ANC members in the Free State have rejected the newly elected provincial executive committee (PEC) and want conference organisers charged by the national executive committee. The provincial elective conference was held two weeks ago. According to the grouping, the organisers have brought the party into disrepute by holding a conference while there were still internal issues. They said they were concerned that the process followed in the run-up to the provincial elective conference to assess its readiness was incorrect. They said the NEC was meant to have sent the entire national working committee (NWC) to the province to examine whether the province was ready to hold the conference but that did not happen. “We are particularly disappointed by the election of the new PEC and as disgruntled members, we do not recognise the new leadership as we feel it was elected unlawfully,”Monnapule Ntamo, spokesperson of the angry members, said. He said they couldn’t allow the organisation that they love so dearly to be run like a tuck shop where major decisions are abruptly taken without consulting other stakeholders. “This conduct is irresponsible, unconstitutional and goes against the constitutional imperative of acting with integrity in all their dealings,” Ntamo said. He said the provincial conference that took place two weeks was not supposed to happen because the BGM’S and audits were not concluded in other areas. “So, we do not recognise the PEC and we want the NEC to disband it or we will be heading to court,” he said. Ntamo said they were hoping the NEC that would be sitting today at Luthuli House would discuss their concerns as matter of urgency or they would be left with no choice but to approach the courts once again. However, newly elected deputy chairperson William Bulwane said they were baffled by the disgruntled members dissatisfaction. A special ANC NEC is set to decide on the fate of the party’s Free State leadership structures. -MICHAEL TLHAKUDI|michaelt@afrotone.co.za