Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe said the Department was due to take action on Sibanye-Stillwater mine once a report which was being compiled by the Acting Chief Inspector of Mines was completed. The minister was speaking during a briefing on policy and regulatory matters in Pretoria on Sunday. The announcement comes after the recent mine accident where five miners died at the Sibanye Stillwater’s Kloof operations last week after allegedly entering an abandoned working area. This year alone, 20 miners have died at Sibanye Stillwater mine operations. “The Acting Chief Inspector of Mines is compiling a report on all the accidents that occurred on Sibanye-Stillwater mine operations since the beginning of the year. This will enable us to take appropriate action guided by the Mine Health and Safety Act, as opposed to a knee-jerk reaction,” Mantashe said. Mantashe said the Department would take action which would be guided by the framework of the law as opposed being reactionary as the department was committed to the safety of miners. “We are very worried about that fact that out of 45 fatalities thus far, 20 are from one company, Sibanye Stillwater that worries us a great deal, is not that we ignore it , we are looking at it , we want to understand it , if you take it and link it with Harmony, then gold mining is far ahead of the other sectors when it comes to fatalities, and that cannot continue, we are paying attention to that issue as a team,’’ he said Following the incident, the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) called on the President Cyril Ramaphosa to intervene and help with the amending of mine safety legislation in order to curb mine deaths.  To date, #SibanyeStillwater operations are responsible for 20 of the 45 fatalities reported since the beginning of the year. It, therefore, cannot be business as usual in how the Regulator attends to this situation. There will be an update once the report is completed. pic.twitter.com/pE3KXA1tZg — Gwede Mantashe (@GwedeMantashe1) June 17, 2018  -Afro Voice Reporter