WHILE there’s a strong push to ensure an uncontested vote for the position of ANC chairperson in Gauteng in the upcoming elective conference, branches are warming up to education MEC Panyaza Lesufi’s bid for the position of deputy chairperson. This comes against the backdrop of lobbyists of former Tshwane mayor Kgosientso Ramokgopa drumming up support for his candidacy to take over from Paul Mashatile, who serves full time at Luthuli House. Ramokgopa’s lobbyists are adamant that he contest acting chairperson David Makhura for the party’s top post. While Makhura enjoys support from branches in Ekurhuleni, Sedibeng and even Tshwane, Makhura’s backers yesterday warned that it would be “prudent” for his potential challengers to withdraw their bids as they believed Makhura had covered sufficient ground. “There are no dissenting views. But even an hour is too long, it will depend on how the branches nominate. But at the moment, it would be prudent for the others to withdraw,” a source said. Sources said of Lesufi’s bid for the position of deputy chairperson in contrast to economic development MEC Lebogang Maile and Salga chairperson Parks Tau’s chances: “Maile is farfetched, branches in Johannesburg also want Parks. But Ekurhuleni wants Panyaza and he’s solid in the West Rand.” While the ANC national executive committee has instructed ANC regional and provincial structures – whose terms in office had expired or were about to – to hold conferences by the end of July, the ANC is Gauteng has slated its elective conference for early next month As the race to find a replacement for Mashatile heats up, Makhura has been accused of using state resources to silence his opponents. Makhura has been accused of using his clean-up drive on corruption as a smokescreen to throw mud on those challenging his supposed preferred candidate – Tau – for the position of provincial chairperson. This prompted ANC provincial secretary Hope Papo yesterday to pour cold water on the allegations. “The PEC (provincial executive committee) took note of the work being done by the provincial government and Premier Makhura, in particular, to deal with the implementation of all outstanding forensic investigation reports as part of dealing decisively with wrongdoing and corruption and pledged its full support and confidence,” Papo said. “It dismissed with utter contempt the baseless, false and malicious allegations levelled against the acting provincial chairperson who was accused of abusing state resources to target his so-called political opponents.” This comes as the ANC reported yesterday on the outcomes of its PEC meeting held last Friday. Papo said the PEC was well pleased with progress made by ANC regional structures towards the hosting of regional conferences. “The PEC is pleased that 142 out of 474 branches have been able to convene successful branch meetings which were peaceful and purposeful in nominating candidates for the regional and provincial leadership and in discussing practical steps to implement unity, renewal and radical socio-economic transformation in Gauteng,” Papo said. “The PEC further noted that the ANC NEC extended the deadline for convening of regional and provincial conferences to the end of July 2018. It also noted that more than 150 branch meetings were scheduled to take place during the (past) weekend.” bonolos@afrotone.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO