A YOUNG female “agripreneur”, Mapaseka Dlamini, has launched a second rooftop farm on African Housing Company’s (AFHCO) Stanop Building. This follows the successful launch of the initiative in October. Through the work of the Johannesburg inner city partnership, Wouldn’t It Be Cool (WIBC) and key stakeholders, the Urban Agriculture Initiative is yielding positive results in addressing issues of food security, sustainable job creation, education and skills development in the city. Dlamini, who runs the Green Sky Rooftop Garden, has one of the largest rooftop urban farms in South Africa, which grows more than 3000 gourmet lettuce, herbs, peppers, cucumbers and basil plants using various hydroponic systems. Passionate about the transfer of skills and empowering young women, Dlamini employs four female graduates who have expertise in horticulture and agriculture studies. “I also plan to transfer skills to people without any formal qualifications or training so that they too can start up their own businesses and benefit from some of the skills and expertise I have gained over the years,” she said. “I really love growing food using a combination of traditional and urban farming techniques.” Due to the growth in demand for fresh produce in the inner city, WIBC has identified potential urban farmers to transform rooftop spaces into hydroponic farms across the city. Of the 55 potential farmers, 22 are undergoing the pre-incubation phase of an intensive three-month technical boot camp followed by the incubation phase, which includes business coaching, a mentorship programme, technical support, market access facilitation and bookkeeping support services through WIBC. The roll out of farming equipment is scheduled to coincide with preincubation graduation at the end of the month, at Khan Corner, Platinum Place, 120 End Street A and 120 End Street B. The city of Johannesburg supports urban agriculture, which fits into its vision of growing a diverse and competitive economy that creates jobs to ensure a pro-poor development that addresses inequality and poverty. ntombin@thenewage.co.za -NTOMBI NKOSI