SECRETARY of state Rex Tillerson’s trip to Africa, is being hailed by the state department as a statement that America cares about Africa. This, despite or because of President Donald Trump’s recent description of the continent as a place full of “sh*thole countries”. If that is why he’s going, I say, hip hip, hooray. I mean, Wakanda shouldn’t be the only positive word about Africa in the news. I spend a lot of time thinking about Africa because I do business and charitable work there. For that reason, I also spend a lot of time in Africa. As a matter of fact, I just returned from a six-week trip to the continent last week. So, while I applauded the secretary’s overture toward Africa, when I looked at his itinerary I was a tad confused. It is, literally, all over the place. At first blush, there is no common thread that ties the trip together. Despite the implied age old narrative that Africa is a place defined by death, disease and destruction, so, let’s show we care. I still didn’t get it. The countries on his schedule are all over the map, geographically and politically. After scratching my head for several days trying to make rhyme or reason out of the trip’s mission, it finally struck me that there is a common thread to be found after all. It is oil! Despite the post election dust up in Kenya, it is solidly set on democratic moorings. So is Nigeria despite the continued terrorist threat of Boko Haram. The story of these two countries is one about the resilience of democracy but that point is nowhere to be found in the press package. That would be a great story. The only other thing the two African countries have in common is oil. When you compare these two democratic countries to Chad, Djibouti and Equatorial Guinea they have little, if nothing, in common. Chad, Djibouti and Equatorial Guinea have three of the most repressive regimes in the world. So, unless this is a trip to compare and contrast the progress being made in terms of democratisation, the question is why lump these countries in the same basket on the same trip. You guessed it, oil. Chad is oil rich. It’s probably just a coincidence but ExxonMobil has invested a solid $3.5bn in this fragile state. Then there is Djibouti. Oyster oil and gas, a Canadian outfit, in a recent project update, noted that like its neighbouring states of Yemen, Eritrea and Somalia, Djibouti shows real promise as an oil and gas producer. The same with Equatorial Guinea, it has estimated oil reserves in the neighbourhood of 1.1 billion barrels. Finally, there’s Ethiopia. Need I say why they made the list – the country touts itself as the next oil frontier. China is there and expects its oil blocks to be in production in 2019. Experts project that Ethiopia’s oil reserves baseline at 2.7 billion barrels. If this is what it is, let’s call it what it is. We have a Texas oil man as Secretary of State, so it should come as no surprise that oil would be first on the list of things that would interest him about Africa. In the lead up to the trip, there’s been no mention of deliverables comparable to Clinton’s Agoa or George Bush’s Pepfar, Millennium Challenge Initiative or Africom. Let’s not try to make this out to be something other than what it is. This trip is not meant to counter Trump’s defamation of the continent or its people. In an administration rift with conflicts and cases of self enrichment saying that the secretary’s trip is about compassion is about as convincing as the president asking what is collusion? This trip is about the only thing that matters to this administration and the WuTang Clan, in their 1994 classic Cream, put it better – cash rules everything around me. Cream get the money. Dollar, dollar bill, y’all. That this is a trip about oil and money is something you can take to the bank. If there is no huge outpouring of gratitude by African leaders for the secretary’s visit, don’t be surprised. Trust me, folks on the continent have heard this song before. Charles R Stith, former US ambassador to Tanzania, is the executive chairperson of the Pula Group