IF THE four nations tournament in Zambia is anything akin to an examination, then it is safe to say Bafana Bafana narrowly passed their preliminaries and will now have to do better in the finals. That is where they find themselves, with hosts Zambia standing between them and what could turn out to be a positive exercise for them. Most of the elements in play that coach Stuart Baxter wanted to see on Wednesday must have satisfied him. The defence held their own against the big Angolans. The midfield showed strength and creativity, while striker Lebo Mothiba found the back of the net. The team even managed to rebound from going a goal down in the penalty shootout, something that Bafana are not known for. With Zambia expecting to lift the trophy at the Levy Mwanawasa Stadium, with their key men Justin Shonga and Augustine Mulenga determined to shut down South Africa, Baxter has aces up his sleeve that he did not use against Angola. Having already said that he will go with a totally different side for the final, expectations are that star striker Percy Tau will be among those who will start, with Orlando Pirates’ Thembinkosi Lorch likely to make his national team debut. “The team I’ll be picking in the final will be a completely different team, it will be 11 different players. “We need this game and we’ll do everything we can to win,” Baxter said. SuperSport United midfielder Teboho Mokoena could find himself getting a run in midfield, possibly alongside Kamohelo Mokotjo and Keagan Dolly. Sibusiso Vilakazi is also likely to start. For Dolly, this clash that will help hike up the team’s confidence ahead of the Africa Cup of Nations qualifiers against Libya, Seychelles and Nigeria later this year. “It will not be easy in the final. I know the atmosphere at the stadium will be tough because I played there a few years ago with Sundowns. “We will get a crowd that will make things difficult for us. And it is never easy playing against a team that has the whole country backing them,” Dolly said. “But this is about building. We now have a new vision.” mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za