THE Public Investment Corporation (PIC), which has a large exposure to VBS Mutual Bank, yesterday declined to answer questions about its investment in the failed bank. It refused to say whether the state pensioners’ money invested in VBS was safe. The PIC emerged as the biggest shareholder in VBS with 27%, so one would expect its experts to have been aware of the problems at the bank. However, it was the Treasury and the Reserve Bank which raised the alarm and placed VBS under curatorship. When pressed why it did not pick up the problems, the investment corporation gave The New Age the cold shoulder. Instead, the PIC issued rather a lame statement in which it said it “has noted the decision by the Reserve Bank to place the bank under curatorship after it experienced liquidity challenges”. “The PIC will work closely with the appointed curator, SizweNtsalubaGobodo, and all other stakeholders to assist the bank to navigate through this difficult situation and hopefully emerge much stronger,” it said. “We can’t say anything more than what is in the statement. That’s all we can say now and is our position at the moment,” was the PIC’s response. However, the Public Servants’ Association (PSA), a trade union representing more than 230 000 employees, said it was questionable why the PIC as the major shareholder was not the first institution to spot the problems. “This is becoming too much of a general occurrence lately and again raises questions over the manner in which the PIC goes about investing. “The PIC should have monitored the day-to-day running of the bank to show that it is concerned about pensioners’ money,” Ivan Fredericks, thePSA general manager, said. The PSA said that given the small size of VBS, the PIC could take it over and run it properly to keep the flag flying over a black-owned bank. “The PIC cannot continue mismanaging pensioners’ money in this fashion,” the union said. At the same time, the Black Business Council (BBC) said that while the circumstances leading to the unfortunate situation remained hazy, it was deeply concerned that the Reserve Bank and Treasury had not taken the BBC into their confidence on the matter affecting a black bank. The Black Management Forum (BMF) said the curatorship process should not have been the first method of intervention in helping VBS with its liquidity challenges. “We will seek to engage with the management, shareholders, relevant key stakeholders of VBS as well as those from the Treasury to get the full details and context on this matter and decision taken. “We also urge that the VBS commercial licensing application process be expedited to ensure that they do not wait the normal 12-18 months review period,” the BMF said. VBS applied for a commercial banking licence towards the end of last month. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za