THE Black Sash will approach the Constitutional Court today to ensure that the social grants system and its beneficiaries are protected when the unlawful contract between the South African Social Security Agency Sassa and Cash Paymaster Services (CPS) ends on March 31. Sassa has approached the Constitutional Court for an order for another six-month extension to allow CPS to continue to provide social grant payments. Black Sash said in a statement it was unable to appose this application. The Centre for Applied Legal Studies (CALS) will approach the Constitutional Court on behalf of the Black Sash. “Sassa has known since at least December 18 last year that it would require a CPS cash payment extension,” Wandisa Phama, an attorney at CALS said. “It delayed for nearly eight weeks before bringing this application. The conduct of Sassa is unexplained. The silence of the Minister of Social Development is deafening.” CALS said since it won’t be able to oppose the application due to the signifcant risk posed to grant beneficiaries, it will argue that Sassa has placed insufficient information before the court for the relief they seek, its proposed plan has inadequate safeguards for protecting beneficiaries’ personal data, which leaves them vulnerable to exploitation, there is no justification to pay CPS any additional fees for fulfilling its constitutional obligations and that the court should extend its supervisory role in the matter. Sassa recently said it’s achieving its goal to pay social grants without the use of a third party contractor. The agency said it had made direct transfers into about 2.4 million personal bank accounts for the month of March. The agency also put through a proposal for another six month extension on its contract with CPS, to provide a back-up in case there are any problems with the new payment system. However, the proposal was rejected by Parliament’s portfolio committee on social development last month. The Social Development Department and the Post Office reached an agreement on the distribution of social grants that is due to start from April 1. dennisc@thenewage.co.za -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN AND KEITUMETSI MOTLHALE