AN INTEREST rate cut is possible as the Reserve Bank’s monetary policy committee meets next week amid an alignment of economic conditions for a favourable outcome. Inflation has fallen to its lowest level in three years, at 4%, well within the Bank’s target range of 3%-6%. This was the February figure, well down on January’s 4.4%, Stats SA data shows. Slower annual price increases in the food and non-alcoholic beverages category triggered the decline. Core inflation, which excludes the prices of food, non-alcoholic beverages, petrol and energy, was unchanged at 4.1% year-onyear in February, while on a month-onmonth basis it quickened to 1.1% from 0.2% previously. A 25bps cut is predicted. In the last meeting, the MPC decided to keep the repo rate unchanged at 6.75%. “Consumer inflation decelerated lower than the market’s forecast of 4.5%. Inflation is expected to remain contained below the Reserve Bank’s 6% upper target range throughout 2018,” Nedbank economist Busisiwe Radebe, said. Radebe said a firmer and sustained rand trajectory, could lead to an early interest rate cut. “Our forecast is for a 25 basis point reduction,” she said. Inflation is expected to moderate further and remain below 5% in the first few months of this year, before quickening once more to above 5% in the latter part of the year as the benefit of lower food prices recede and the oil price rises from current levels. Economist believe the volatile rand remains the main risk to the inflation outlook, although the rand has strengthened since the election of President Ramaphosa. But economic analysis by PricewaterhouseCoopers’ showed tax increases tabled in the February budget threatened to put pressure on prices and that could result in interest rates remaining flat for sometimes. Former finance minister Malusi Gigaba announced in his budget an increase of 52c in the fuel levy and a one percentage point hike in VAT from April 1. “Further, tax increase in sugary drinks and plastic bag levy including the possibility of credit rate downgrade, all these factors will determine which way the rate decision could go,” PwC said. Kabelo Molefe, economist and consumer expert, said an interest rate cut would support investments and consumer spending. “The international oil price is low, the local fuel price has been coming down despite the 52c/l fuel levy announced by the finance minister and the rand continues a good run against major currencies. This can lead to the Reserve Bank cutting rates next week,” she said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za