THE provincial department of cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) has finally acted to restore order at the lawless Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma local municipality in southern KwaZulu-Natal. MEC Nomusa Dube-Ncube yesterday said the provincial cabinet had resolved to place the municipality under administration to ensure that people got the service due to them. Outlining why the municipality had been placed under administration, Dube-Ncube told a special council sitting in Creighton, that the council had failed to appoint two senior and crucial officials such as the municipal manager and the director for technical services. The contract of the municipal manager, Nkosiyezwe Vezi, expired in January and because of factionalism in the structures of the ANC in the region, they could not agree on a suitable candidate to replace him. At some point, some councillor collapsed meetings by staging walkouts and when some meetings sat, councillors used them to insult each other. Dube-Ncube said all this started in January when officials from Cogta attended a council meeting but were not allowed to remain at the meeting in order to give technical advice to the council. “The council has in abundance displayed the propensity to ignore the rule of law,” Dube-Ncube said. “On March 19, another letter was received by Cogta from the mayor citing various incidents which pointed to the fact that the municipality was fast degenerating into a state of anarchy. “We have all been disgraced by the conduct of some in this council and this reprehensible behaviour has brought the reputation of this municipality into disrepute at the most critical time when we are trying to restore the confidence of communities to our municipalities.” Announcing the final decision, she said the time had come for them as the government to act. “I am bringing to you the news as we move forward that the provincial executive council has resolved to place this municipality under administration in terms of 139(1)(b) of the Constitution. “The implication of this decision is that as the MEC for Cogta, I will as directed by the provincial executive, be assuming the executive and administrative functions, so that we can get this service delivery train back on the rails. I am also appointing a ministerial representative to implement the section 139(1)(b) intervention at this municipality, whose function will be to prepare and implement a recovery plan for it,” she said. sihlem@thenewage.co.za