THE ANC yesterday urged maximum cooperation from party leaders at the centre of recent raids by the country’s top law enforcement agencies. The Hawks yesterday raided the offices of North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo. Investigators from the elite crime-fighting unit were in search of documents relating to alleged fraud, maladministration and corruption to the tune of R160m. ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte said that while ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule cooperated willingly with the Hawks in relation to its raid of the office of the Free State premier, party leaders must cooperate in cases where they may be implicated. “The ANC’s attitude is simply this, that where there is an investigation to be done, whoever is being asked to cooperate must do so fully. Don’t pretend that the agencies don’t have a right to do so. “The most important thing is that every person is innocent until proven
guilty,” Duarte said. Reflecting on the personnel in party interim structures set up by its national executive committee (NEC) to repair fractured relations in KwaZulu-Natal and the Free State, the ANC yesterday conceded that some of them were “factionally skewed”. This after tensions in the Free State ANC spilled over to the ruling party’s Luthuli House headquarters earlier this week, where pro- and anti-Magashule demonstrators clashed over the establishment of the provincial task team (PTT) to oversee the planning of a provincial
conference later this month. Disgruntled party members argued that Magashule still held sway in the PTT, as it was heavily stacked with his loyalists. Similar complaints have also been raised about the representation of the
ANC KwaZulu-Natal (PTT), also set up to prepare for a rerun of the 2015 ANC KwaZulu-Natal elective conference. It is for this Duarte admitted that when the KwaZulu-Natal interim leadership structure was initially set-up, complaints about its inclusivity were genuine. “KZN, in the beginning, yes it was skewed, admittedly so. There was a discussion with the KZN task team and there was agreement that they would sit down as the joint task team and bring in others that they thought would assist with the province’s ability to unite and
to take the province to a provincial conference,” Duarte said Regarding similar complaints of factionalism on the Free State PTT, Duarte said: “On the issue of the Free State, indeed, there are voices arguing for more inclusion in the task team and the view is that their voices must be heard. “If there is a view that there must be more inclusion, that must happen.” The ANC has also resolved to rope in its former presidents to help bolster the ruling party’s campaign leading up to the 2019 general elections. Former president Jacob Zuma was recently seen participating in the party’s elections workshop in Ekhurhuleni. It is for this that Duarte defended Zuma’s presence, saying despite the body of opinion in some quarters of society, insisting that Zuma would be a liability for the ANC in the run-up to the 2019 poll, the ANC won’t “throw away” Zuma. “There is a reality that president Zuma is among the oldest and most experienced cadres that are still active in the organisation. He volunteered himself to President Ramaphosa that he will assist with working during this campaign for the ANC to have a victory “One opinion is not prevalent in this country on Zuma. There are multitudes of opinions and there certainly is a huge body of opinion that disagrees with the view and even with is on the recall,” Duarte said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za