MINING industry players generally seem convinced that the “Ramatashe” magic from President Cyril Ramaphosa and new Mining Minister Gwede Mantshe will direct the sunset industry to a new dawn. The industry’s outlook was gloomy for decades due to regulatory uncertainty, economic decline and the controversial revised mining charter introduced by former mineral resources minister Mosebenzi Zwane. Both Ramaphosa and Mantashe have extensive backgrounds in mining and could be the perfect combination to revitalise the industry. A new term, Ramaphoria, expressing the joy at Ramaphosa’s election and Mantashe’s appointment, meaning to backtrack or reverse your position, have been coined in the wake of political developments. South Africa’s mining industry once contributed close to 20% of SA’s GDP, but this figure has declined from 7.7% in 2012 to 7.3% in 2016. Over the past five years, mining’s contribution to GDP has declined by 0.2% a year, while domestic input costs continue to rise. Industry profits before tax over the five-year period declined by 48% and dividends paid to investors plunged by 52%. About 70000 mining jobs have been lost in SA in the past five years, The third iteration of the mining charter already threatens 50000-100000 direct mining jobs, say some industry watchers, but this situation could now be “Mantashed”. “We are going to see the strong combination of ‘Ramaphoria’ and ‘Mantash’ bringing back hope,” Kgotso Mosweu, a mining analyst, said. “There is no doubt that Mantashe will ‘Mantash’ the charter and try to level the playing fields in order to satisfy all industry players.” Mosweu said Ramaphosa has already taken a bold step to review the entire charter, a move that was welcomed by the Chamber of Mines. “However, the most challenging aspect will be once empowered always empowered, which the chamber favours. “We hope this aspect will be Mantashed (changed). If it is not, that’s the end of radical economic transformation,” Mosweu said. He said there was hope that Mantashe and Ramaphosa would revive the platinum belt which has declined as a number of mining companies decided to close down. Chris Griffith, CEO of Anglo American Platinum, told The New Age he hoped the changes would result in a stronger, more competitive mining industry. “We are looking forward to develop and implement effective policy measures that encourage the sustainable growth of the industry,” he said. The Chamber of Mines welcomed Mantashe as “a man of integrity”. The Bench Marks Foundation said Mantashe was a person who would listen to the voice of civil society and to community concerns. John Capel, executive director, said the new minister had actually worked on a mine and as former secretary-general of the ANC, was aware of the “winners and losers” dichotomy. “President Ramaphosa sees mining as a sunshine industry, but the sun only shines on some. Will he be committed to making it a sunshine industry for communities and workers as well?” he said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za