STAKEHOLDERS gathered in Pretoria on Thursday and Friday to discuss strengthening research on ways to support the fight against violence on women and children and related research topics. Some of the research topics included working with perpetrators of domestic violence, challenges of hate crime and human trafficking – sex work and violence, as well as the psychosocial factors contributing to economically independent women staying in abusive relationships. Deputy Minister of Social Development Hendrietta Bogopane-Zulu attended the two-day research symposium, which was organised with its partners, the UN Office on Drugs and Crime and the UN Children’s Fund (Unicef). “As part of eliminating incidents of gender-based violence in the country; the Department of Social Development established a gender-based violence command centre to provide professional trauma counselling to victims of genderbased violence,” Bogopane-Zulu said. She said the command centre is also a 24-hour call centre dedicated to provide support and counselling to those affected by gender-based violence especially women and children. Tina Khatha, 27, said she was in an “economically” abusive relationship and struggled to get help or leave the relationship. “I did not know who to speak to about it because to the outside world. My life seemed perfect and put together. I graduated, got a fancy job and married the man of my dreams. I earned more than he did, which was the root of his insecurities,” Khatha said. “He would prevent me from keeping my job by sabotaging me and taking the car without letting me know. He would sometimes say things like ‘you need to quit working’ but sometimes had no problem with just taking my money and recklessly spending it,” she said. She says abuse is abuse whether it is physical, emotional or economic and it is wrong. Lindsay Henson from Lawyers Against Abuse says little legal help is offered in cases of gender-based violence. “We did research in the Diepsloot area and found that many of the issues encountered by members of this community might relate to some areas around South Africa. This area (Diepsloot) will have high levels of woman and children abuse cases because the nearest police station is in Pretoria, making it hard to make arrests. “There is no court in Diepsloot and the closest one is in Randburg. Two social workers are assigned to this area and they only go there once a week. Diepsloot does not have a medical care centre,” Henson said. She says with limited resources in an area, a victim might end up relying on the perpetrator to give them money to get to places where they can find help. Meanwhile, professor Juan Nel from the department of psychology at the University of South Africa said that other forms of violence against women included hate crimes but that these were often not reported for a number of reasons. Nel said about 66% of hate crime incidents were not reported to the police in provinces such as Gauteng, KwazuluNatal, Western Cape, Eastern Cape and Limpopo. “Reasons for these cases not being reported include fear of retribution, victimisation, lack of trust in the SAPS due to previous negative experiences and sometimes being told that the SAPS only help South African citizens,” Nel said. sisandam@thenewage.co.za -SISANDA MADWANTSI