THE University of South Africa (Unisa) has defended itself saying the institution did not tolerate sex abuse after suspending two of its officials accused of sexual harassment by one of its staff members. This comes after the victim of the alleged assault lambasted the institution, saying it had been deaf to her complaints against a senior member of the university. A former female staffer at the university’s centre for early childhood development said she had reported cases of sexual harassment but nothing had been done until recently. She detailed in an online story how a board member demanded sex with her in order for her to keep her job. However Unisa said when such matters are brought to its attentions they are fully investigated and “pursued vigorously” until they are solved. “The university is taking the requisite action after receiving the complaint and has, as a matter of procedure, already placed the two employees implicated in the matter on suspension as per policy. The matter will receive close and urgent attention until it has been finalised,” Unisa spokesperson Martin Ramotshela said. “The university has also noted that the same matter has been reported to the SAPS who are doing their own investigation. The university undertakes to cooperate fully with the SAPS investigation.” Ramotshela encouraged any other employees and students experiencing incidents of harassment to report them to the right functionaries and through appropriate channels. In another case, a professor from the university is accused of manipulating students to have sex with him. In a campus article, a person purported to be the professor allegedly texts a journalist and boasts of frequently sleeping with students. The university said it was aware of the allegations and that investigations were at an advanced stage. “We want to state categorically that Unisa has a zero tolerance towards all forms of harassment in the workplace and, where complaints of harassment are brought to its attention, they are fully investigated and pursued vigorously until they reach finality,” Ramotshela said. -LILLIAN SELAPISA|lillians@thenewage.co.za