THE besieged community of Manguzi in northern KZN near the MozambiqueSA border is banking on new Police Minister Bheki Cele to intervene and move with speed to deal with their longstanding grievances about border crime which has been on the rise. The community has been under siege from criminal syndicates operating from the Mozambican side, stealing cattle and smuggling off-road SUVs across border into the neighbouring state. Former president Jacob Zuma and ex-police minister Fikile Mbalula even visited the area following complaints from locals in a bid to stem the illegal activity, to no avail. Now the locals are pinning their hopes on Cele to address the crime that’s economically bleeding the far northern KZN enclave. The chairperson of the Jozini victims forum, Joseph Ngubane, said they had faith in Cele to do the right thing since he was a man who was serious about dealing with crime in the country. The victims forum was formed to track and bring back some of the vehicles stolen in the Jozini area. “We have not formally spoken to him since he is new in office. However, we have trust in Cele that he will look at all the letters we have written to his department and the police commissioner and act. What is left for us is to ensure that the request is acted upon fast as we are suffering,” Ngubane said. Cele’s spokesperson Nonkululeko Phokane said like all other crime issues, the cross-border crime in Manguzi would be acted upon with vigour since it affects South Africans who deserve a safe country. She said there was a plan that was left by previous minister of police Fikile Mbalula and that plan was being implemented. “There was a plan that was left by Mbalula after visiting Manguzi and that plan is being implemented at the provincial level. Nothing has stopped since Mbalula left office,” Phokane said. Mbalula had announced several measures, including working towards an extradition treaty with Mozambique to bring back suspected criminals to face justice in the country. He also announced plans to root out corrupt police officers who are working with the criminals to smuggle the vehicles. Since the cross-border crime started in 2015, the people of Jozini have lost about 80 vehicles. Some of the vehicles are reportedly parked in a pound in Maputo while efforts to bring them back to the country have been unsuccessful. Lives have been lost as syndicates killed those resisting efforts to steal the vehicles. -SIHLE MAVUSO|sihlem@thenewage.co.za