In marking a magnificent milestone, the Feather Awards, as a social movement that advocates for the equalised acceptance of the LGBTI people in society, will this year honour gay rights icon Simon Nkoli. Through an elaborate video on social media, co-founder of the Feather Awards Thami Kotlolo on Sunday announced the theme for this year’s iconic LGBTI event. Kotloto stated that the theme: “Simon Nkoli: Honouring the past, claiming the future” acts as a call to action as the Feathers begin months of activities leading to the November annual event. “We are turning 10 and we are proud and excited that we have reached this milestone. We continue to grow and reflect on how we can be better, not just as an event but also as a social movement and LGBTI platform. This is why we continue to engage our stakeholders towards doing better and benefitting the LGBTI community. Celebrating the legacy of Simon Nkoli is our way of saying we get it and we will continue the good fight”, Kotlolo said. Over the years, the event has been described as the one that honours public figures who have inspired and empowered LGBTI people. Last year, Superstar singer and actress Kelly Khumalo bagged two awards for best-styled female and fag hag of the year. During her acceptance of the second award, which she was a bit shaken about, Khumalo shared a moving speech about the LGBT community, thanking all her LGBTI friends for always supporting her. Is @KellyKhumaloZA ever without a gay on her arm? We honestly can’t remember! She’s already taken one award home today and her second is Fag Hag of the Year. Congratulations to her. #FeatherAwards2017 #ALutaContinua pic.twitter.com/zNff9GEiK0 — FeatherAwardsSA (@FeathersSA) November 9, 2017 Film actress Thishiwe Ziqubu and her partner Mandisa Nduna walked away with the award of Cutest Couple of the Year. They’ve been taking social media by storm with their #BaeGoals! These two are both so gorgeous and give the rest of us something to strive for in a relationship! The Cutest Couple of the Year, of course, goes to @Mandisa_Nduna & @Thishiwe! Congrats ladies! #FeatherAwards2017 pic.twitter.com/MH7qga0sSV — FeatherAwardsSA (@FeathersSA) November 9, 2017 -Simangele Legodi