THE Diepkloof community in Soweto has applauded the shutdown of a brothel in the community. This was after community engagements with the member of the mayoral committee for public safety, Michael Sun, where the community raised several safety issues and reported a house on Lerotho Street that they suspected was a brothel. Other issues included establishing a neighbourhood patrol team, illegal dumping and by-law contraventions In his response to the residents of Diepkloof, Sun undertook to investigate and deal with the issues, including the suspected brothel. The Johannesburg metropolitan police department’s K-9 unit witnessed a suspicious male entering the house in question at the weekend and moved to investigate. “Upon investigation, the house, pointed out by the community members, was indeed used as a brothel and on further investigation, it was discovered the male operator was also in possession of an illegal firearm and ammunition,” he said. Sun said the male suspect said the house did not belong to him and he was renting the rooms to the women at R200 a day to operate their business. Neither the male suspect nor the three women found on the premises could produce any licence or permit to conduct such a business. “I was informed by the K-9 officers that the community members cheered
as they witnessed the arrest of the suspect. I want to commend the residents of Diepkloof for giving us the tip-off so the K-9 unit could act swiftly to eradicate the criminal elements from the heart of that neighbourhood. It’s this synergy that will see criminals running away from our communities,” he said. He said all suspects were handed over to the Diepkloof police station to face charges of prostitution and possession of an illegal firearm and ammunition respectively. The illegal brothel has since been closed down by police. Meanwhile, the wife of a victim has applauded off-duty officer Sam Maqabe for saving her husband’s life on the N12 highway. “He will always be my husband and my children’s hero. My two boys still have their father, I still have a husband and his parents still have their child, all because of Capt Sam Maqabe,” she said. Maqabe helped the man who was bleeding after he had been hijacked and stabbed several times. The wife of the victim explained the incident as follows: “On Tuesday evening, my husband was hijacked on the N12 highway in the Daveyton area. He was brutally attacked and stabbed in the chest with a knife and in his arms with a screwdriver. He fought off the attackers and managed to get out of their grip. He ran across the highway for help.” She said he stood bleeding without shoes or shirt in the middle of the road in oncoming traffic and nobody stopped to help. “An off-duty policeman stopped to help. Capt Maqabe immediately assisted my husband,” she said. kutullom@thenewage.co.za