A LEGAL showdown between education lobby group Equal Education and the Department of Education is set to start tomorrow in the Bisho High Court in the Eastern Cape. The case, dating back to 2012, is over government’s commitment to meeting the school infrastructure targets and the delivery of basic school infrastructure. “This matter did not have to go to court. For two years we attempted to engage directly with Minister Angie Motshekga to #FixTheNorms. Why does government want to avoid clear time lines and plans for fixing schools?” Equal Education spokesperson Mila Kakaza said. When Equal Education launched the court application, it wanted the Basic Education Minister to prescribe minimum norms and standards for school infrastructure. The norms and standards were passed in November 2013. Now the organisations wants some of the provisions of the norms and standards to be changed. Among the issues it wants the court to consider is changing the escape clause that the Department of Education (DBE) is only responsible for the fixing of schools to the extent that other parts of the state, such as Eskom or Public Works, cooperate and make resources available. “We are asking the court to set aside the escape clause – it is a get out of jail free card. The norms law sets out important deadlines. The first was on November 29, 2016, by which date there should have been no more schools without water, sanitation and electricity or that are built from inappropriate structures. The escape clause renders these deadlines (the first of which the state has already violated) as loose targets,” Kakaza said. Equal Education said in the past three years, the number of schools that have no water has decreased by 1 601. However, the number of schools that the NEIMS data classifies as having an unreliable water supply has increased by 2 350. The same pattern is true of electricity. This re-categorisation of schools from having no water and electricity to having an unreliable supply suggests a number of possibilities, unreliable data, shifting definitions of what constitutes access to basic services and incomplete or limited upgrades to basic services. The number of schools with no toilets at all and with pit latrines alone, has decreased markedly from 2011 to 2016 but despite this more than 9000 schools still do not have proper toilets. The rate of school infrastructure delivery has increased in the categories of water and sanitation when comparing the period before the norms were published (from 2011 to 2013) to the period after they were published (from 2014 to 2016). “How many more children could access dignified school environments, conducive to quality teaching and learning, if the infrastructure law was tightened? For how much longer must pupils and teachers in these 9 203 schools have to suffer unsanitary and unsafe pit latrines? While every newly built school is a victory, there are still far too many schools that are in crisis condition that are constructed of mud, wood, asbestos and zinc,” Kakaza said. lillians@thenewage.co.za -LILLIAN SELAPISA