A MAJOR change that will protect employees both in the private and public sectors from salary deductions has taken another step towards becoming law. The Constitutional Court confirmed last December that a section in the Public Service Act, which permitted an employer to make unilateral deductions from an employee’s salary was unconstitutional. Now a proposed law will attempt to stop financial and other service providers from abusing payroll deductions. The Treasury and the Reserve Bank have published a paper on the issue to solicit comment on the most appropriate ways to address the abuse. The treasury and the Bank said yesterday that there had been an increase in the number of entities that extend credit and offer products and services for which they deduct monthly repayments. These include insurance premiums and savings products. These services are usually offered with prior agreements between employers and employees and, in certain instances, are requested or initiated by financial institutions, including financial intermediaries. The Treasury and Bank said the central objective of the new laws is to ensure that the payroll deduction system treats employees fairly and protects them from abuse. Deductions should remain a safe, transparent and efficient means of collection. The paper focuses on discretionary or voluntary payroll deductions covering all employees. Examples of a discretionary or voluntary payroll deduction include repayments of home, car or other types of personal loans and deductions for savings products or insurance premiums. Andrew Levy, an employment expert, welcomed the regulations. “This will help millions of South Africans given the abuse of the past. “Controls over salary deductions by creditors should be supported by everyone.” According to the Treasury, the payroll deduction system should be underpinned by principles that seek to protect employees from predatory or unfair lending and afford employees the benefit of access to finance at reasonable rates. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za