The Democratic Alliance (DA) has on Friday announced that it will head to court in order to declare the legal fees paid by the state for former president Jacob Zuma unlawful. DA Federal Council Chairperson James Selfe said the move was because Zuma’s application for legal assistance was for his criminal trial which has yet to begin and not the R15.3 million spent on the civil trial brought by the DA. “We will also apply to have all decisions relating to the R15.3 million already paid in the civil case brought by the DA to ensure Zuma gets his day in court and all monies spent on his criminal trial thus far and in future, reviewed and set aside and that this money is recouped from Zuma personally,” Selfe said in a statement. President Cyril Ramaphosa yesterday confirmed that Zuma’s legal fees will be paid by the state except in cases where the court finds that he acted in his personal capacity. “The state attorney decided that it was appropriate to grant the request of the former president, subject to the condition that he make an undertaking – which he did – to refund monies thus spent should it be found that he acted in his personal capacity and own interest in the commission of the alleged offences,” Ramaphosa said. He said this was done in line with section 12.2.2 of the then applicable Treasury Regulations, issued in terms of the Public Finance Management Act, 1999, read with section 3(1) of the State Attorney Act. However, the DA has rejected the decision saying “the undertaking by the State Attorney does not add up”. “The State Attorney may grant legal assistance where it sees fit and conversely, may choose to not provide assistance. The offences in question, allegedly committed by Zuma, were in his role as MEC of Economic Affairs and Tourism in Kwazulu-Natal when he was relatively unknown. It remains unclear why the State Attorney would grant legal assistance to Zuma,” said Selfe. The president provided clarity on the former president’s legal fees following questions from Economic Freedom Fighters leader Julius Malema during an oral reply session on March 14. The EFF’s questions referred to cases in which it is claimed that the former president committed criminal offences during his tenure as a government official both at the provincial and later at the national level. The request made by former president Zuma for legal representation at state expense considered section 3(3) of the State Attorney Act, 1957. -TNA Reporter 