JOZI’S leading food and lifestyle festival, Flavours Of The City festival, at Montecasino
from today to Sunday will salivate the taste buds of food lovers in celebration of
the country’s colourful culinary heritage, diversity, and flair. The three-day highly anticipated feelgood affair will also treat Joburgers to sounds of 2017 Idols SA winner Paxton Fillies and Lloyd Cele among many. Kicking things off Flavours Of The City hosted guests at the Palazzo Hotel for a taste of what the official food festival will bring. One of the key features of the festival is the Culinary Studio, sponsored by Lamb and Mutton SA and Stella Artois. #FlavoursOfTheCity Menu…… pic.twitter.com/AfXdFPnw2D — ntokozo (@ntoshybabe) February 26, 2018 The Culinary Studio will feature celebrity chefs cooking meals from around the world with Lentswe Bhengu set to cook up a storm in studio as he prepares his signature African-inspired dishes, while chef Blake Anderson will also weave his culinary magic in studio. Besides the two treats, there will be a chance for food lovers to get intimate over a five-course menu made up of all Johannesburg inspired nibbles that send taste buds all over the city of gold courtesy of chef Gareth Jordaan, a newly appointed executive chef at Tsogo Sun’s five-star Palazzo Hotel. His treat includes chicken wings, butter chicken, pork schnitzels and well-made pieces of steak. Jordaan said he drew inspiration from different flavours that Joburg has to offer including Zulu inspired uphuthu popcorns. “Food changes daily and so do diners’ expectations – I take the food I love and the meals I have perfected in the past and see how I can master them even further, appealing to today’s palate,” he said. The scrumptious meals were topped off with a classic milk tart dessert prepared by award-winning chef Marco Gaspar who brought his consummate culinary skills to the table. Every meal was accompanied by a specific wine that intensified the already explosive flavours. With the grand festival happening, it promises to be an eventful and action-packed and attendees will get to experience every ounce from culinary delights inspired by all corners of the globe, to musical performances, lifestyle exhibitions and more. Flavours Of The City is a feast for the senses, showcasing the best of the region’s cosmopolitan personality and culture through food, drink, and entertainment. -NONTOKOZO GXUMISA