FORMER British Prime Minister Harold Wilson in 1964 said of politicians that “they may enjoy a surge in popularity now, but a week is a long time in politics”. If this is the case then a year must seem like an eternity. Just ask the leader of the DA, Mmusi Maimane. Approximately a year ago the DA was riding its blue wave which seemed unstoppable. A few months before they won the city of Cape Town with over 70% support. They also reduced the ANC support to below 50% in four other metros and numerous local municipalities countrywide. The ANC was also dealt a major psychological blow when it dropped to 54% nationally. The DA had displayed strategic sophistication, wresting control of three additional metros and many other municipalities from the ANC through negotiated coalitions. It entered 2017 with the confidence of a party presenting itself as waiting in the wings to take over the national government in 2019. Maimane delivered the Sona debate response, Zuma The Broken Man, with panache. For most of the year the DA focused on its negative narrative of the proverbial three Cs – capture, corruption and cadre deployment which was aimed at the head of the ANC, former president Jacob Zuma. Its target, tactics, tools and sites of struggle, such as Parliament, courts, media, civil society and think tanks appeared to be working in synergy. It juxtaposed this narrative with the DA’s message of so-called clean and efficient governance and meritocracy. Throughout 2017 the ANC, on the other hand, was disorientated and divided, limping from one crisis to another – starting with the court judgment of Nkandla, the state capture report, the Gupta email saga and many more scandals on a weekly basis. It reached its pinnacle of crisis with the eight motions of no confidence against former Zuma which brought into the open the deep divisions in the ANC. By September 2017 some polls showed ANC support was hovering between 48% and 52% nationally and in danger of going below 50% in Gauteng. Having started 2017 on a high, who would have imagined that the DA’s fortunes would change so dramatically that this year witnesses Maimane losing his mojo. Today with Zuma gone, the tables have turned and the DA has become a house divided, leaving the party shell-shocked in a state of political purgatory and paralysis, unable to figure out how to respond to a tranformed ANC. In the three months since he became president, Cyril Ramaphosa has surgically dismantled the DA’s decade-long campaign of punting capture and corruption by introducing numerous sweeping anti-corruption and good governance changes. Recent by-elections in Soweto and Beaufort West confirm this strategy is working – with increased support for the ANC and a drop in support for the DA. Furthermore, the DA is at war with itself. It’s parliamentary caucus and the party cannot agree on a strategy to respond to the changing political conditions. It has suffered major embarrassment in the manner in which it (mis)managed the so-called water crisis by consistently postponing “day zero”. Senior DA councillors now acknowledge – or allege – that this so-called crisis might have been exaggerated – with the intention being to appoint an Israeli company in a rushed closed bid process to build two desalination plants at an inflated cost of R7bn. Ironically this apparent scandal bares the hallmarks of state capture – by Israeli companies. The DA may be guilty of the three Cs it has always accused the ANC of. DA factionalism, which has been quietly brewing over the last decade, has also been aired in public – with fights between the coloured and white caucus in Cape Town. Of late it also suffered a number of other embarrassing sagas, including having lost its motion of no confidence against its own mayor. The voting pattern showed deep racial tensions as the majority of councillors who voted against the motion were coloured. DA coalition agreements across the country are also under severe strain. It lost Beaufort West a few weeks ago to an ANC coalition and the EFF has tabled a motion of no confidence in the DA mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay. Also, the DA mayor of Johannesburg is accused by the white caucus of being “too close” to the ANC. The DA federal congress to be held next month is already deepening divisions. There is major ideological and factional contestation between the old white guard and the so-called black caucus who want to take over. Already the Tshwane mayor has indicated his intention to contest the conservative Athol Trollip for the position of deputy national chair. Meanwhile Helen Zille continues with what her critics say are racist tweets. Has the blue wave crashed and is the DA a sinking ship? Or will they be able to neutralise Rama-phoria’s new dawn? If they continue on their trajectory it is highly unlikely. Particularly, if the ANC maintains its momentum and continues to leverage off the current climate until the elections. The true test of leadership is how the leader responds to a crisis. For now, Maimane seems to be failing in this regard. However, since the elections are only in 2019 and a week being a long time in politics, he may just find his mojo again. Zahir Amien is a social & political commentator