JOHANNESBURG residents can expect even more traffic as the city’s Roads Agency begins the process of fixing damage caused by the heavy rains last week. The agency will embark on a regional maintenance and repair programme this week with the priority being potholes. This after the city received a number of reports regarding road defects and damage including bridges and an increased number of potholes due to the heavy rains across the city in the past few days. The member of the mayoral committee (MMC) for transport, Nonhlanhla Helen Makhuba, said: “We urge residents to be patient as potholes cannot be repaired while the roads are still wet. The teams will start repair work in the coming week and ask that road users be cooperative and cautious as the teams do their work.” Makhuba said the programme would be accelerated upon the appointment of Level 1 contractors. “The procurement process of contractors is at an advanced stage and the appointment of local labour will commence once the processes are concluded,” he said. He encouraged communities to report all road and storm related emergencies. Some roads were damaged, a hotel in Centurion was flooded and scores of people were evacuated from flooded homes in northern parts of the metro. Among the affected areas was Olifantsvlei cemetery where some graves were washed away and headstones damaged. Informal settlements including Diepsloot, Klipspruit West and Jackson Park were severely affected by the heavy rainfall. The Tshwane emergency services department attended to 41 flooding incidents on Thursday and Friday. Families in Pienaarspoort were moved to community halls after their shacks were flooded and the rising water posed a danger. The Apies River was in full flood for some time and there were incidents of vehicles being stuck in underpasses, especially the underpass in Rachel de Beer Street. Many trees were also uprooted, which caused structural damage to houses and vehicles. The city of Tshwane cautioned road users, particularly motorists, to be on the lookout for severe damages to roads in various parts of the metro pole following sustained heavy rains in the past few days. MMC for roads and transport Sheila Senkubuge said a sinkhole occurred on Stephanus Schoeman Road in Valhalla on Thursday, due to the persistent rain fall. “Reports we have received from our technical team thus far said a section of the roadway measuring about five metres wide caved in, resulting in a defined hole of about three metres in depth,” Senkubuge said. “The sinkhole is adjacent to the closed Valhalla landfill site and borders military property in the area. A motor vehicle drove into the sinkhole on Friday.” Senkubuge said It remained unclear at the moment how long it would take to fix the damage. -SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE