JOHANNESBURG mayor Herman Mashaba is at the centre of a storm over alleged favouritism for an R11m contract over three years to the Field Band Foundation (FBF), an NGO with close ties to him. ANC Joburg region spokesperson Jolidee Matongo said: “Mashaba initiated funding for the FBF without any written proposal sent to the city by the foundation. Mashaba was the chairperson of the foundation for more than 16 years. “The FBF is a well-established NGO with support from the private sector and boasts a budget of R22m a year, yet Mashaba has the audacity to initiate funding of R11m from ratepayers money to fund the FBF.” He said Mashaba, who resigned from the NGO after becoming mayor of Joburg, initiated a process for the funding of the FBF six months after taking office to roll out an anti-drug abuse awareness campaign . Matongo claimed the NGO had not even requested funding or a partnership with the city. “The foundation only submitted a proposal to the city in June 2017,” Matongo said. He said subsequently the member of the mayoral committee (MMC) for health and social development, Mpho Phalatse, wrote to then MMC for finance Rabelani Dagada requesting funding for FBF. Matongo said the city then budgeted R3.5m a year over a three-year period for the project, leading to an escalation of “the indicative budget for social funding within the health and social development department” by R3.5m in the 2017-18 financial year. “In January, FBF submitted a request and invoice for an upfront payment of R3.5m to the city. In February the city paid an upfront amount of R3.5m to the FBF,” Matongo said. He said the city in its quarterly report to the November 2017 council meeting, said that between July and September 2017, it had called for proposals from NGOs for funding the anti-drug project. “The department then said that 93 proposals from NGOs were received and none of them met the set criteria for funding. Could this explain the ring-fencing of R11.1m for the foundation partnership at the expense of 93 NGOs that do work on a daily basis to assist vulnerable communities?” Mashaba rubbished the accusation. He said in February last year the city held a discussion on its strategy to combat the scourge of drugs, a critical component of which is its support of NGOs who work in affected communities to provide young people a path away from drugs. “During this engagement I suggested that social development look into the Field Band Foundation. Social Development engaged with the foundation and received a proposal which was assessed and determined to be of value to the city. “Through the powers afforded to MMCs, a grant was approved and tabled in the mayoral committee.” ntombin@thenewage.co.za