He may not have wanted to, but Mark Alexandra has stolen the South African Rugby Union’s (Saru) thunder, giving the biggest indication yet that Rassie Erasmus will today be announced as the new Springbok coach. Following the sacking of Allister Coetzee a few weeks ago, Saru promised to name a new coach by the end of February and when that did not happen, the country’s rugby custodians pushed to make the announcement today in Randburg. At a function that was meant to announce Castle Free as the new sponsor for both the men and women Springbok Sevens teams yesterday, Saru president Alexandra inadvertently let slip that the new Bok coach was already a part of the Springbok set-up. No prizes for guessing who the Saru supremo was referring to, especially since he went as far as saying the organisation never wanted to lose Erasmus to Europe in 2016 and that Saru were happy when Erasmus agreed to return as director of rugby, which looks set to turn into the head coach role. “I do not want to steal the thunder. We will announce the Springbok coach. We believe he is the best person in the country to take the team forward. “He is in the permanent employ of the organisation. His contract will run until he decides to leave or the day we decide that he must leave,” Alexandra said. “We have the right group of people to take us forward. We were sad to lose Rassie initially because he is a great rugby brain. “One of the best rugby brains we have in the country. We believe he will bring a lot to the table if he does get appointed. These are people we have worked with before.” Alexandra also claimed that Saru never had to run after Castle to beg for a sponsorship for the Sevens teams, saying the brewery first approached Saru. “We were very sad when the Steinhoff news broke and when we had to part with them. They were a good partner and they looked after us. We cannot even complain. “But SA Breweries are a great backer of SA Rugby and they reflect the right lifestyle in which the Sevens operate,” Alexandra said. “This is one time when we did not go out hunting for sponsors. The sponsors came hunting for us. There were a lot of takers for the Sevens teams and we had to pick one that is a perfect fit.” The Blitzbokke will wear the Castle Free logo on their chests at the Sevens World Cup in San Francisco later in the year, but will have to do without the logo at the Commonwealth Games in London due to sponsorship agreements. The team will first wear the logo during the Las Vegas leg of the World Rugby Sevens Series from tomorrow. mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za