Joburg Mayor Herman Mashaba said he has noted several concerns raised by residents relating to the recent section 49 notices relating to property valuations across the city. He said this has raised a great deal of alarm which he deems necessary to address. “The current narrative being carried by the media is the one that says the City through the 2018 General Valuation Roll (GV) is forcing residents out of their hard earned money and to address revenue challenges which is not true.” Mashaba said the process is run independently from the City and cannot be influenced by the city in any way. “The implementation of the GV is a legislated process which takes place every 4 years with prescribed steps which need to be followed, and the City of Joburg was granted a 1year extension to implement in on 1 July 2018. “Johannesburg is a city of choice for many. It is a major economic hub on the continent and offers many who flock here with the potential for a better life. The knock-on effect is the high demand for property and, in a space of high demand and limited supply, prices are likely to increase over a 5 year period.” He further said in establishing the value of a property, the municipal valuer analyses the recent sales trends for a property within a specific area as at the date of valuation, coupled with the relevant market information activity available for that area. According to the mayor, this, therefore, takes into consideration areas where values have declined, increased or remained stagnant due to the current state of the property market and the economy at large. “This information provides the basis for the valuation.” Mashaba said in the case of the current valuations process, market values were determined as of 1 July 2017. According to the City’s GV, the average increase for residential properties across the 879000 properties is 30% over the 5 year period. Mashaba said the movements in residential values can be allocated as follows: “It must be noted that the values in the existing valuation roll (GV2013) were determined with the property market as at 2 July 2012 which is a 5-year gap between the two valuations. “Despite all this, measures have been taken to ensure that the current General valuation roll process is improved from that of 2013.” According to Mashaba, improvements include: “This last point is critical, given the 2013 GV which has proved to be flawed. At the time, many objections were received, but thousands of cases of under-valuations were not addressed. The correction of these valuations in the 2018 GV is a necessity and had led to some reports of massive increases.” He said where errors have been made in the process he will see to it that the City works to be responsive and caring in its approach to correct the problem. As the city grows, Mashaba said so does the need to maintain and improve municipal services. He also encouraged residents who would like to object to their valuations do so within the legislated objection period and in follow specified processes and channels to ensure that their objection can be properly and fully administered. “Objections lodged via the City’s website, www.joburg.org.za, under the e-services tab and follow the prompts leading to the valuations webpage.” Alternatively, hardcopy forms can be obtained at the following venues: -TNA Reporter 