THE ANC Youth League (ANCYL) has taken to task its mother body for apparently overlooking young people from its ranks for appointments as premiers. The deputy president of the league, Desmond Moela said yesterday that they wanted at least one from their ranks appointed as a premier after the 2019 elections. “It greatly concerns us that as young people we are not being taken seriously. Come 2019, we want to see more young people elected as premiers,” Moela told The New Age. His comments come in the wake of the appointments the ANC this week of Sisi Ntomebela and Refilwe Mtshweni as premiers of the Free State and Mpumalanga respectively. Moela said that while the league welcomed the ANC’s appointments of Ntomebela and Mtshweni, there was a great lack of youth representation in the ruling party’s leadership structures. Meanwhile ANC Veterans League president Snuki Zikalala said the party should leverage off the appointments in a bid to further entrench 50/50 gender parity in positions of leadership within the party. “Looking ahead of the 2019 general elections, the emphasis is on everyone from branch member level upwards supports the 50/50 policy. Even when we go to conference, members should know that this is the policy of the ANC,” he said. Both Ntombela and Mtsweni promised to inspire confidence in the provincial governments they would be leading as well as the party faithful. It is for this that Zikalala said both premier-elects needed the full support of ANC members. “We are pleased that women are being recognised in the ANC in important positions,” he said. He, however, lamented the inclusion of only one woman in the ANC’s top six officials at the party’s December elective conference in Nasrec last year. He said more could have been done. “It’s been unfortunate, that one female comrade got into the top six,” Zikalala said. Once Ntombela and Mtsweni officially get elected and sworn in by their legislatures, the pair will be among four female premiers in the country’s nine provinces. ANC Women’s League secretary-general Matuba Meokgo demanded that among the party deployment of premier-elect, at least half of them must be women. “We demand that after the 2019 elections the ANC must deploy minimum 50% of women as Premier’s, minimum 50% of women representation in provincial and national cabinets and in all provincial legislatures and in national assembly. “We demand 50/50 gender parity at all levels and not only in government but private sector must adhere to our demands too,” Meokgo said. She said that the ANC should not back-down from its conference resolutions that sought to empower women in the party. “No one should attempt to water down any mandate given by ANC branch delegates during the 54th national conference. Taking forward the agenda of radical socio-economic transformation is non-negotiable,” Meokgo said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za