A PROBE into remarks made by Mangaung metro mayor Olly Mlamleli during a budget meeting in June last year has been referred back to the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC) in the Free State. The commission said it received the matter back from council speaker Mxolisi Siyonzana. The complaint was laid by trade union Solidarity after Mlamleli apparently said: “White people are white because they are cheats and they are cheats because they are white.” Mlamleli made her utterances after she had suspended an employee of the metro for a Facebook post in which he made racist comments following a video showing an altercation between a black woman and a white man at Spur late last year. Speaking to The New Age yesterday, SAHRC provincial manager Thabang Kheswa said they received the matter back from the council speaker. He said the commission previously sent a letter to the speaker informing him that the council would need to discipline Mlamleli for the utterances she had made. “We sent correspondence to the office of the speaker for them to see how best they can address the matter but surprisingly they referred the complaint back to us, saying they don’t have rules for this kind of matter in the council.” He said they now have to investigate why the council did not have such rules and also send back the remarks to the mayor to respond. “Now that the matter is back with us, it is only proper to engage the mayor and hear her side of the story because the correspondence was only sent to the speaker’s office not to her,” Kheswa said. He said the utterances were made in the council and the law allows council members certain privileges and immunity. The New Age sent questions about the complaint to Solidarity’s Dr Connie Mulder but there had been no response by yesterday afternoon. Municipal spokesperson Qondile Khedama said the mayor had apologised at the council meeting last year. However, they will wait for the recommendations from the SAHRC and would comment afterwards. Kheswa said the SAHRC would make recommendations in due course. michaelt@thenewage.co.za