Deputy President David Mabuza has called on the media to utilise its vast resources and skills to partner with government in order to educate South Africans about their rights and how to enforce them. Mabuza said the justice system and institutions must work for the poor and ensure that it is never a privilege to be enjoyed by the rich and powerful. The Deputy president was giving a keynote address at the 59th anniversary of the Sharpeville massacre. He said while the government had made the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development to educate South Africans about their rights and responsibilities, much still remains to be done. “To raise human rights awareness, the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development is involved in initiatives like the National Schools Moot Court Competition (NSMCC) in partnership with the DBE and the University of Pretoria. “We urge our South African media to also utilise its vast resources and skills to partner with government in educating our people about their rights and how they can enforce them.” Mabuza said government would like to encourage more young people, especially black women to follow careers in law in order for the country to have more human rights lawyers who will defend the socio-economic rights of people living in the informal settlements and villages as most school children and communities needed to be empowered through popular programmes and how to enforce the law. He added that the country owed its flourishing Human rights culture to global human rights icons like former president Nelson Mandela and his generation. “We must all rise and lend a hand to make sure that no child travels long distances without shoes to dilapidated schools without clean water, sanitation, and electricity. “We must all rise and lend a hand in building communities where women can walk freely at night without fear that they will be raped or killed. “We must put shoulder to the wheel to help families rehabilitate their sons and daughters who have surrendered their lives to drugs and alcohol abuse.” The deputy president slammed government for not doing enough to protect psychiatry patients who died at several institutions across Gauteng. “Our country is emerging from a painful period in which 144 persons with psychosocial disabilities perished because we did not do enough as a government to uphold their rights to self-representation, to protection from harm, to access to quality care.” He called on South Africans to refuse to be kept quiet by the brutal killing of people, especially the killing of a 21-year-old Taxify driver Siyabonga Ngcobo who was burned in the boot of his car in Pretoria. “From now on, the office of the deputy president and that of the premier will be working closely to make sure that government responded to the concerns raised by the residents in order to deepen service delivery, alleviate poverty and eliminate unemployment.” “This work begins now. My office is adoptingSharpeville as one of its priority projects. We will begin by simple actions of cleaning the graveyards of where our heroes and people are buried. “When we commemorate sixty years of the death of the victims of Sharpeville in two years, we must be able to say it pays to respect human rights and the rule of law. “We must be able to say that our people were correct to adopt our first Bill of Rights called the African Claims at the ANC 1943 National Conference.” Mabuza said coming to Sharpeville, Sebokeng, and Boipatong gave him another chance of sipping from the overflowing fountain of the people’s resilience and heroism. -TNA Reporter