EFF Deputy President Floyd Shivambu could have assault charges laid against him after attacking and choking a photojournalist outside Parliament on Tuesday. A video of Shivambu in the company of another unknown man emerged on social while they were having an altercation with multimedia journalist Adrian de Kock. In the video, Shivambu could be seen pushing De Kock in the full view of other journalists and some Parliamentary staff. According to the photojournalist, Shivambu attacked him for taking pictures of him without his permission. He said that they were in parliament following Patricia De Lille’ hearing whereupon he approached Shivambu for a comment. “While I was here I saw Floyd arrive in his car and I started taking pictures of him.  I walked up to him and tried to get a comment. As I walked up to him he said no, why do you take my picture? He said that I must delete it and I said no I can’t delete it.” De Kock says Shivambu then grabbed his camera and tried to delete the pictures himself. After that three more people then joined in when “Floyd started grabbing me by the throat”. The journalist said that he going to lay assault charges against Floyd. Meanwhile, Shivambu has since apologized for the altercation with the journalist. “I regret the incident and believe it should have been handled differently. I take full responsibility and apologise for engaging in a scuffle with a person I discovered after the incident is a Journalist. I will write and emailed an official apology on the scuffle because I believe it was not supposed to happen,” he said. Shivambu admits that he was ‘impatient’ with the gentleman and that was ‘inappropriate’. The ANC has condemned the incident and further called on the speaker to investigate the matter. “It is very regrettable and completely unacceptable that a member of Parliament who also happens to be a Chief Whip of a party, can be found to be involved in such unbecoming behaviour,” reads the statement. The party says that the media must be allowed to do their job without any fear of victimisation. Following the alteration, Shivambu later walked away. WATCH: @FloydShivambu with two unknown men attacking a journalist in Cape Town pic.twitter.com/VYXuLSm9zB — Matuba Mahlatjie (@MahlatjieMatuba) March 20, 2018 -TNA Reporter