GRANT recipients will receive their payments, come April, through the South African Post Office, (Sapo) the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) said yesterday. This comes after Sassa approached the Constitutional Court seeking an extension of the Cash Payment Service (CPS) contract citing its intention of asking the court to suspend the invalidity declaration of its contract with CPS for six months. This would enable cash payments to be made through the CPS infrastructure till September for approximately 26% of beneficiaries. “Sapo is ready to open accounts for Sassa grants beneficiaries from April 3. The testing of the bulk account opening process, with a sample of 1000 existing Sassa beneficiaries’ data was seamlessly concluded last month, Sassa acting CEO Pearl Bhengu said. She said the government provided social assistance to more than 17 million South Africans through social grants. The majority of the citizens benefiting are children. “The child support grant represents two-thirds of the total number of grants administered by Sassa. This grant addresses poverty among children and has grown from 70000 social grants in 1998 to almost 12 million in 2018. Social grants bring financial security to many families and is, according to the General Household Survey, the main source of income for many South Africans,” she said. The relationship between Sassa and Sapo to ensure the smooth implementation of the public sector-led hybrid grants payment model has evolved positively. In the past, Sassa relied on the services of CPS to pay 10.7 million beneficiaries through cash payments, direct deposits and electronic payments. Sassa has reactivated the PMG accounts in the SA Reserve Bank environment and is using this to manage the money for the direct transfers. This means the money is not paid over to a private contractor in advance but remains in the government environment until deposited into the social grant beneficiary accounts. The agency has successfully implemented pilot projects since January by directly paying beneficiaries who receive grants via commercial banks, including Postbank. Sassa has made direct payments to more than 2.3 million beneficiaries for the month of March and this number will be increased in April. CPS is in line to be the service provider that will distribute social grants using the new Sassa-Sapo card at all pay points across the country. Through National Treasury and the South African Reserve Bank, Sassa is also in talks
with commercial banks for the establishment of a low-cost account for social grants beneficiaries who receive their money directly into their personal bank accounts. Sassa is engaging 27 accredited cooperative financial institutions that may be used in the future to pay social grants. Grant beneficiaries have three options of receiving their social grants namely, cash payments at pay points, through merchants or supermarkets, and via personal bank accounts. Beneficiaries using the old Sassa card may continue to do so until September 30. We will soon introduce the new Sassa cards via the Post Office and beneficiaries will be informed about the process to be followed. The new card will be progressively phased in over the period from April to September 30, when it is expected that the current Sassa card will no longer be in circulation at all. kutullom@thenewage.co.za