It’s all systems go for the annual Kgalagadi Jazz Festival on Saturday in Kuruman. Coordinator Refiloe Majoro said the music festival was not a one-day event but there would be other activities that focus on upcoming musicians. “The festival also provides high level opportunities for skills development through workshops and master classes for our musicians by visiting music experts or performers. “It is part of our audience development strategy to continue to attract more patrons.” Majoro said their intention was to grow the festival in many ways including content, festival presentation, developmental programmes, audience development and business proposition. Majoro said the event, now in its third year, was growing and attracting more and more fans. “Over the last two festivals, the festival had an immense impact on the local business through guesthouses, restaurants, grocery stores, local suppliers and small and medium enterprises. “The atmosphere has developed into an exciting environment of expectation and anticipation of enjoyment by festival revellers. “We have observed that the numbers of festival patrons as travellers from far and near increase dramatically over the festival days,” she said. Majoro said they had also noted that the increase in numbers was in line with their vision and mission. “We intend to systematically include a proper survey and counting system to evaluate the numbers and rand value-add to the area during the festival,” she said. However, Majoro said they were calling on the municipality to speedily replace the ageing infrastructure and facilities to ensure the smooth hosting of the event. “We are yearly encouraging the local municipality to work and conduct certain improvements to their facilities and infrastructure. “The purpose is usually achieved but the facilities seem to lack continuation of management until the next event, which we presume to be unnecessarily costly and wasting what we feel is good for the community,” she said. Musicians who are expected to perform at the event include Jonas Gwangwa, Herbie Tsoaeli, The Rasta Rebels, Tsepo Tshola, Vusi Nova, Kelly Khumalo, Bucie, DJ Smallz and local artists such as the Seodin Jazz Ensemble, Lord Rapture, Biyaman and Jah Lady. “Our message to the people in and around Kuruman and our country: we openly invite you and encourage you to be part of this initiative. “We will truly appreciate to see all people embracing the spirit of social and true lifestyle promotions and healthy living,” she said. Majoro said the event promised to bring more tourists to the Kuruman district. The Diamond and Dorings event will be hosted from Friday until Monday in Kimberley at the weekend. tiisetsom@thenewage.co.za