THE public protector’s office acting CEO, Nthoriseng Motsitsi, on behalf of advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane, yesterday accepted a memorandum from the ANC Joburg region to investigate mismanagement and maladministration in the city of Johannesburg. The party urged the public protector to investigate issues including irregular appointments, purging of employees, irregular salary increases, conflict of interest and maladministration. “We will go through our normal processes whether we have jurisdiction to investigate the issues raised. “We will come back to you with acknowledgement and our decision regarding the investigator, you will hear from us within the next 10 days,” Motsitsi said. ANC Joburg region spokesperson Jolidee Matongo said since the DA-led administration took office, a number of irregular appointments have been made – all under the watch of mayor Herman Mashaba. “The appointments include David Tembe, who ranked fifth out of nine candidates in relation to the appointment of executive director of public safety. “The report tabled in the council was revised to facilitate the appointment of Tembe to the disadvantage of more competent and qualified candidates,” Matongo said. He said on irregular salary increases, chief of staff Michael Beaumont’s salary was irregularly increased with the full knowledge and consent of the mayor. “When the matter was raised in the council, the mayor acknowledged this fact and committed to reversing the salary increase of R500000 per annum. To date this has not been done. “Over and above the irregular salary increase the chief of staff has been allocated the use of a state vehicle and VIP protection, which he is not entitled to. “Going against all that he preaches, Mashaba partook in seeing Grant Thornton, a company in which Lephatsi Financial Services, a company owned by his wife Connie Mashaba and consequently owns a 35% stake in Thornton, being awarded a lucrative multi-million rand
contract to undertake forensic investigations in the city with a direct benefit to Lephatsi Financial Services. “The mayor unlawfully and irregularly entered the procurement space and solicited free services from Lephatsi Financial Services. This is a clear conflict of interest,” Matongo said. However, Mashaba said he welcomed any investigation and he was comfortable that there was nothing to hide in the city. “We will participate in any investigation that the public protector may wish to initiate, believing in the reputation of the office of the public protector for acting without fear or favour. “How the ANC in Johannesburg has the temerity to discuss matters of good governance is beyond all comprehension,” Mashaba said. Matongo said upon assuming office, Mashaba had been on a witch-hunt to rid the city of all ANC affiliated employees. Matongo said the appointment of KPMG to conduct investigations in various departments including the revenue unit in 2016 was done without advertising a tender as required by the Municipal Finance Management Act and supply chain management regulations. Handing over the memorandum, committee member Matshidiso Mfikoe said they hoped that issues raised would be speedily investigated. She said they had raised the issues in the council and followed all processes before approaching the public protector. ntombin@thenewage.co.za