ALL eyes are on retired deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke who is expected to announce his decision on the arbitration award to the families of Life Esidimeni patients. The patients died the deadly and chaotic Gauteng health department’s Mental Health Marathon Project in 2016. All 144 patients died after the execution of the project in which mentally ill patients were relocated from Life Esidimeni facilities into unlicensed and ill-equipped NGOs across the province under the false pretext of de-institutionalisation and cost-cutting. The Gauteng health department under the leadership of former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu terminated a long-standing contract with Life Esidimeni saying the auditor-general flagged the decades-long contract. More than 40 other patients are still missing although the number has been disputed by DA shadow MEC for health Jack Bloom, while others survived the deadly relocation. Moseneke is expected to announce how much will be awarded to the families of the deceased and the survivors. A total of R28m has been allocated to the Gauteng government by finance MEC Barbara Creecy during her budget vote speech recently for compensation to the families. The state has made a deal with representatives of the families of those who died for R200000 compensation, R180 000 for psychological suffering and R20000 for funeral costs. The deal does not include Legal Aid South Africa, which represents families of those who survived the Esidimeni tragedy. The deaths of the 144 psychiatric patients in Gauteng has been likened to the Marikana Massacre, in which 34 miners were gunned down in August 2012. Throughout the arbitration hearings, all former senior officials at the department including former MEC Qedani Mahlangu, head of department Dr. Barney Selebano and head of the
Mental health unit Dr. Makgabo Manamela shifted the blame to junior staff saying they were misled. They all argued they had no reason to doubt staff and that they had no idea why junior staff would mislead them. Mahlangu said she was only the political head and she too was misled by the head and the head of the mental health unit. Project manager Levy Mosenogi, also a senior official at the department, has contradicted the testimony of other officials saying he warned the department the project couldn’t be carried out in the stipulated time and would lead to negative consequences. He said despite
his misgivings he was sidelined and the project shambolically carried out. All three officials resigned from the department before they could undergo disciplinary processes. He has denied any responsibility saying he only takes “political responsibility”, a statement that has been met with outrage and anger by the families. Family after family member has testified how they begged and pleaded with the MEC not to go ahead with the project but their pleas fell on deaf ears. Mental health experts’ warnings were also ignored. leratod@thenewage.co.za