South Africa is believed to have more people living with HIV-Aids than any other country in the world and a recent study by the Human Sciences Research Council revealed that condom use in the country has dramatically declined since 2012, largely blaming it for the skyrocketing rate of the disease. As the country struggles to control the virus, not to mention the high rates of unwanted teen pregnancies and other sexually transmitted infections, the long-term promotion of condom use continues to be taunted by public health authorities as the key factors in the fight against HIV-Aids. “Sexual intercourse is a reality of the human condition. Promoting only abstinence to control the HIV-Aids epidemic is a naive and unrealistic approach. A more attainable goal is to ensure that people behave in a safe way,” Dr Kalpana Sabapathy, HIV advisor for Doctors Without Borders, said. While health experts also note that practising faithfulness may seem implausible for many sexually active adults, the promotion of safe sex has proved to the only responsible choice. Here are fun and creative ways to encourage condom use: Femidoms Femidoms, as female condoms (FC) are predominantly called, are still not as popular as male counterparts in South Africa, and perhaps the eight-hour waiting period that previously came with it before intercourse had a lot to do with it. While femidoms never really took off in most parts of Europe and the US except in Africa as women complained that they were baggy and that they “squeaked” during use, the newly improved second generations of the brand of female condoms, aka FC2, is here with a waiting period of up to three hours. Accounting for just less than 2% of total condom distribution, not only are FC2 as effective as the original but less noisy and less expensive to produce. According to the Marie Stopes clinic, “a widening range of female condoms are becoming available. Some are for sale at selected chemists while others can be picked up for free at local hospital, clinic or a Marie Stopes centre.” Safe sex workshops Want to learn a thing or two about why femidoms are the next big thing in safe sex? Every morning Bophelong Clinic in Midrand also gives free female condoms to women visiting the establishment. Explaining their primary use, nursing assistant Patience Ndlovu said female condoms can be used for oral, anal and vaginal sex. She said the little sponge found inside the condom is what gives men an extra zing of pleasure during penetration. “I know you ladies will come back and tell me how your partners enjoyed intercourse when you use this condom. I guarantee you that this little particle that you see here will make sure that he keeps coming back for more, plus you will be safe at the same time,” she said. “Condom, Condom” Ringtone A new catchy ringtone by an a cappella group in India has come up with a doo-wop song inspired by the contagious pop song Barbara Ann to remind those who are sexually active to condomise. The song, titled Condom, Condom, plays when one receives a phone call and is said to encourage and remind people to play it safe, according to edition.cnn.com. Since its launch in August 2017, more than 60000 people have downloaded it. Coffee flavoured condoms Coffee lovers will definitely enjoy the latest condom flavour that has been invented by US charity DKT International to encourage safer sex in Ethiopia. Created in response to some people’s claim that they hate condoms because the smell of latex sickens them, the dark brown condoms allegedly taste and smell like the favourite coffee of Ethiopia – the macchiato, an espresso with cream and sugar. Andrew Piller, director of DKT’s local chapter, said the aim of the coffee condoms was not to make money, but to make condom-users more comfortable. However, back home in South Africa, we have our own scented condoms which many were curious to put to use since they were introduced by then Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa in September 2016. “The Max condom is in response to what a number of people were saying. They were saying the other condom that had been introduced by the government did not smell so well and it made a noise whenever it was used,” he said. Spray-on condom Developed by German sexual health teacher Jan Vinzenz Krause in 2009 after he struggled to find a condom that fits correctly. The teacher revealed he came up this eyebrow-raising line of condoms after being inspired by the mechanics of a drive-through car wash. The condoms came with a hard plastic tube with nozzles on it that sprayed liquid latex in all directions, but sadly it never took off because it took about three minutes to dry, thus ruining the mood between the lovers. In 2015, New York designer Michelle Chu sought to revive interest in the concept by coming up with a new range of unisex spray-on condoms called Girlplay, which “produces a line of spray-on condoms that uses the latest technology to fit each and every size, for both male and female”. They also come in a set called the Lover’s Kit, which includes a smart bra and “conventional” condoms that change the flavour at the press of a button on the remote control. culture@thenewage.co.za