THE ANC’s Joburg region has refused to apologise to Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba after he threatened to take legal action. On Thursday ANC caucus leadership handed a memorandum requesting that public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane investigate mismanagement, maladministration, irregularity appointments, irregular salary increase, purging of employees and conflict of interest. In a statement, Mashaba said his personal legal team will write to the ANC demanding that they issue a public apology for the “lies” they peddled outside the office of the public protector. “In the event that the ANC do not hold a press conference within the next seven days to issue a public apology, legal action will be instituted against them,” Mashaba said. However, ANC Joburg region’s Jolidee Matongo flatly refused. “We are not going to apologise. We want the public protector to investigate allegations of misconduct, misgovernance and mismanagement in Johannesburg. Initially they said they had nothing to hide but later now they want us to apologise, we refuse,” Matongo said. “Going against all that he preaches, Mashaba partook in seeing Grant Thornton, a company in which Lephatsi Financial Services, a company owned by his wife Connie Mashaba and consequently owns a 35% stake in Thornton, being awarded a lucrative multimillionrand contract to undertake forensic investigations in the city with a direct benefit to Lephatsi Financial Services. “The mayor unlawfully and irregularly entered the procurement space and solicited free services from Lephatsi Financial Services. This is a clear conflict of interest.” On Thursday, Mashaba’s spokesperson Luyanda Mfeka said the mayor welcomes the move and he had nothing to hide. “In the process of peddling lies on the steps of the public protector’s office, the ANC has continued in their pattern of defaming the city of Johannesburg, and the names of both myself and my family,” Mashaba said. “This will not be tolerated and residents of our city can find comfort in the knowledge that we having nothing to hide. “Our multi-party government operates openly and honestly with its residents. This is precisely why I will take the ANC to court over this matter, to demonstrate in an open court of law that their allegations are without foundation.” -NTOMBI NKOSI|ntombin@thenewage.co.za