DEPUTY President David Mabuza could be spending the rest of his tenure looking over his shoulder as forensic investigator Paul O’Sullivan insists the he has a case to answer over allegations of corruption. Mabuza was sworn in as deputy president on Tuesday amid claims of corruption and of “getting rid of his political opponents”. However, Mabuza moved swiftly this week to dismiss allegations of corruption, insisting the claims were part of a “smear campaign”. “The campaign started in 2009 the moment I became premier because people did not expect a village boy becoming a premier,” he said. “Nine years later, they are still talking about this thing and now I am deputy president. They will probably talk about these things until I die.” Mabuza challenged those with any information against him to hand it over to the country’s law enforcement agencies. “No one wants to step forward and say: ‘I’ve seen DD Mabuza commit this and this and this’. I am prepared to go and testify in court,” he said. “Being a responsible citizen, helping the country to fight crime, fight corruption. No, nobody will blame you for that,” He said the media should not be writing stories based on rumours about him. “It’s important to write about something that has got a base, you can’t write about rumours,” Mabuza said. “We are taking in a wrong culture, a culture of rumours… let’s not abuse it.” He said just because someone hates someone else they say false things … just to advance their own ambitions. “That won’t help our country. An allegation of corruption, of crime, we’re a constitutional democracy, we have got institutions to report to the relevant people. “But if you choose not to report it, but talk about it, that means your intention is not good,” Mabuza said. O’Sullivan opened a fraud case in 2016, linking Mabuza to a R51m land claims scandal in Mpumalanga. It was for this reason that O’Sullivan said the deputy president should not be given a free pass, as he still had a case to answer. “He still needs to explain these things clearly. “The NPA and the Hawks have swept this investigation under the carpet because the criminal justice system has been captured to protect people like Mabuza,” he told The New Age. -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@thenewage.co.za