The Department of Transport has condemned violence in the public transport industry which resulted in the alleged murder of Taxify driver Siyabonga Langelihle Ngcobo. Speaking during a media brief on Friday in Centurion, the department’s spokesperson Ishmael Mnisi called on all public transport operators to desist from any acts of violence and intimidation. WATCH: Department of Transport Spokesperson Ishmael Mnisi call on all public transport operators to desist from violence #SiyabongaNgcobo pic.twitter.com/A817oAlNsG — SA Gov News (@SAgovnews) March 9, 2018 Ngcobo’s body was found in the boot of a burnt out Taxify Chevrolet Aveo near Unisa’s Sunnyside campus on Thursday last week. The officials visited the Ngcobo family in Centurion to offer government’s condolences and support. “We are not happy with the continued violence because it is robbing families of their loved ones and hence the message from the Minister of condemnation of violence,” Mnisi said. Taxify drivers and students from the Tshwane University of Technology (TUT) marched Corner Normaal Street and Willow Road were fellow student Ngcobo was murdered. #JusticeforSiyabonga
Government DO something… pic.twitter.com/BeaWMKOIGi — Perfect Mabaso (@Perfect_Cookham) March 9, 2018 #JusticeforSiyabonga #NotinMyName WE ARE TIRED OF ASSAULTS & KILLINGS AGAINST UBER TAXIFY!!! pic.twitter.com/rgKBT6dxwY — Perfect Mabaso (@Perfect_Cookham) March 9, 2018 #JusticeforSiyabonga Violence against us must must end… we are out here pic.twitter.com/xYCfonAamT — Perfect Mabaso (@Perfect_Cookham) March 9, 2018 #JusticeForSiyabonga Uber and Taxify drivers have joined the march @TeamNews24 pic.twitter.com/DDUPqk1Wm1 — Lerato Sejake (@leosejake) March 9, 2018 On Wednesday, Gauteng MECs for community safety and roads and transport visited Ngcobo’s family. Both Community safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane and roads and transport MEC Ismail Vadi have condemned the brutal murder in the strongest possible terms and have called on law enforcement to leave no stone unturned in bringing the perpetrators to book. “During the visit, the family did indicate that they had information that can help the police crack the case and they also expressed dissatisfaction that there are witnesses who are willing to say what they saw on that day but the police have not interviewed them,” Nkosi-Malobane said. -TNA Reporter