HEALTH Minister Aaron Motsoaledi will meet with the president of the Health Professions Council of South Africa (HPCSA), Dr Tebogo Letlape, before addressing Parliament about the ongoing furore over South African medical students who studied abroad being barred from writing their board exams and completing their internships in the country. This despite the shortage of public health doctors in the country. As the matter heads to the Gauteng High Court next week, Motsoaledi said he wanted to understand the reasoning behind the recent stringent implementation of HPCSA 2009 rules and regulations, which were not enforced until February 2. This regulation requires medical students who studied outside the country to complete their internships abroad before writing their board examinations in which they will have to spend another two years in a foreign country. “I am definitely going to be intervening because I also want to understand this sudden implementation,” Motsoaledi said. “There are certain issues that are problematic and Parliament has also asked about this and needs to report back.” Sara Khajee, a mother of a medical student who is doing his final year in China, said her son was due to come home back after completing his final exams at the end of the month. Khajee, who has already paid more than R1m for her son’s education over five years, said he was left devastated by the sudden HPCSA decision that would prevent him sitting for his board exams and completing his internship in South Africa. “The sad part is that we tried to get him a place at a South African university but even with his 86% average and six As in matric it was just not good enough,” she said. Khajee said like many non-African students, her son had been a victim of the quota system at universities. “We even tried after his second year to get him to a South African university but he was rejected once again because they viewed him being in China as a gap year and not a year of study,” she said. Khajee further said the decision to send her fifth born child to China was not an easy one. “We have really struggled as a family. I had to use my pension fund for him to study. He is a good and dedicated student. It is his dream to become a doctor and serve his country and now his country is punishing him for following that dream. Even though they could not give him a spot at South African universities,” Khajee said. However, Khajee’s son is only one among thousands of medical students who found themselves recently in limbo. At a meeting held at Kampara Conference Centre in Clare Estates on Friday night, scores of affected people came out in their numbers to meet and find a way forward in bringing the urgent court applications. Lindiwe Sithole* (not her real name for fear of victimisation) said she had just returned from China following seven years of study and had been in the middle of getting her qualifications authenticated when she was informed of the policy. “I feel defeated and hurt,” she said. “I already held a forensic degree when I decided my passion lay in medicine. I applied to local universities and got rejected. That’s when I came across this opportunity to study abroad. I learned a foreign language and some days I went to bed hungry, but I did it and passed. Only to come back home and be rejected once again and this time there might not be any come back from that.” Lawyer Annie Tooray said memorandums and petitions had been sent to all relevant department heads appraising them of the situation. “This is not their fight it’s our fight in the country with the HPCSA. The ministry should have had counsel with the relevant countries regarding students and internships because no hospital will take you to do your necessary internship at the moment,” Tooray said. An online petition to get the decision reversed is under way as some students who were set to write their board exams in May have been left in limbo. A 2015 Econex study of the shortage of doctors said the country had 60 doctors per 100000 citizens in 2013. –SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO AND DIKELEDI MOLOBELA|news@thenewage.co.za