Food Lover’s Market Group has on Monday confirmed it has recalled and removed from sale all Enterprise (Bokkie, Renown & Mielkip brands) and Rainbow Chicken processed meat products in their stores. This comes after the Minister of Health Aaron Motsoaledi on Sunday confirmed that Enterprise Foods had been implicated in the contamination of ready to eat cold meat products. “We immediately notified our customers that they can return any Enterprise or Rainbow Chicken products purchased from our Food Lover’s Market or Freshstop stores for a full refund. Customers will not be required to produce till slips or proof of purchase in order to return these products. “We can confirm that our in-house Freshers Deli branded ready-to-eat processed meat products are not manufactured by either Enterprise or Rainbow Chicken (RCL Foods) and are therefore not being recalled,” said Public Relations Jean Harkett. “All recalled products are being segregated and will be retained until such time as they are uplifted from our stores by Tiger Brands and RCL Foods in accordance with their recall plans. All display fridges, slicers and food preparation areas in our stores are in the process of being cleaned and sanitised in order to prevent cross-contamination,” added Harkett. Harkett said they will continue to employ the highest standards of food safety procedures in their meat, deli departments and all fridges and food areas will be cleaned and decontaminated to prevent cross-contamination. Tiger Brands CEO Lawrence MacDougall on Monday said there is no direct link between the death of 180 people and the outbreak of listeriosis with their products. MacDougall was speaking during a media briefing after Minister of Health Aaron Motsoaledi on Sunday confirmed that Enterprise Foods had been implicated in the contamination of ready to eat cold meat products. “There is no direct link with the deaths to our products,” MacDougall said. “Our products have consistently tested low in return CFU’s. Therefore, not all products that have detection are harmful to consumers That is why we have reacted like we have,” he said. -TNA Reporter 