IT IS no exaggeration to state that the salary of one Mamelodi Sundowns player can pay the salaries of the whole EC Bees team. In the case of star players at Sundowns such as Khama Billiat, Jeremy Brockie or Sibusiso Vilakazi, their monthly earnings could bankroll the entire EC Bees operation for more than a month. But this outfit, which hails from the Eastern Cape, will have to rise above all cash considerations and put their best foot forward against Downs in their Nedbank Cup last 16 fixture tonight at Loftus Versfeld Stadium. Coached by Vuyisile Njevu, Bees will have to float like butterflies and sting like the bees they are named after if they are to pull off a legendary upset in local football. In the previous round, EC Bees knocked out Mariveni United with impressive precision, winning the clash 3-1 and showing that they aren’t just pushovers in the competition. For Sundowns, the Nedbank Cup is a must win trophy as the league title, with Orlando Pirates sniffing around, is no absolute guarantee at this stage. This will also be a game that could give Pitso Mosimane’s charges some much needed impetus ahead of the CAF Champions League first round, second leg clash against Rwandan side Rayon Sports on Sunday evening. For now though, the Brazilians will have to motivate themselves to avoid thepotentially deadly mistake of underestimating their opponents, who. Additionally, head coach Mosimane will not be on the bench, as he is in Morocco getting his CAF pro licence. Assistant Manqoba Mngithi, who was also in charge for Sundowns’ win over Cape Town All Stars, will act as the decision maker. Defender Wayne Arendse does not see Mosimane’s absence as a major issue but warned his teammates not to underestimate EC Bees. “Congratulations to the coach. He is stepping up his career. In terms of the match, the coaches that are around have done the job before. The assistant coach and the other coaches know what to do. If we do things the way we normally do, then I don’t see us having any problems,” Arendse said. “We only know that they (the EC Bees) are in the ABC Motsepe League. We have some footage of them when they played Mariveni in the last game. We identified their strengths and weaknesses. A good team on the ball. “We are not taking them lightly. We are going there to win the match convincingly. Lower leagues always want to impress and show what they about. We must show what we are about also.” Sundowns were last season knocked out of the Nedbank Cup at this stage by Golden Arrows. •The match kicks off at 7.30pm. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za