ALL eyes will be on how Australia attempt to deal with Proteas fast bowler Kagiso Rabada in the third Test at Newlands starting today. With Australian captain Steve Smith’s scathing criticism of the decision to overturn the ban on Rabada for making physical contact with him and Nathan Lyon claiming he was relishing facing the 22-year-old speed merchant, it is fair to say sparks will fly as both nations battle to go one up in the fourTest series. In the second Test in Port Elizabeth, Rabada destroyed the visitors, bagging 11 wickets in the match. “The ICC have set the standard, haven’t they? There was clearly contact out in the middle,” an upset Smith said. “I certainly won’t be telling my bowlers to go out there and after taking a wicket, go and get in their (opposing batsmen) space. I don’t think that is on or part of the game. “I certainly think he (Rabada) bumped me a little bit harder than it actually looked on the footage. It didn’t bother me too much. “What’s the point of over-celebrating and getting in the face of a batsman? You’ve already won the battle. “But they’ve (the ICC) obviously decided what’s deliberate contact and what’s not and apparently it wasn’t.” Proteas captain Faf du Plessis won’t be too bothered by the chatter from the tourists, considering his team will be amply fuelled by Rabada’s availability. He said yesterday there were two selections ahead of the match that still had to be dealt with. Middle-order batsman Temba Bavuma is fit again after a finger injury and is contesting a place with Theunis de Bruyn, who played in the first two Tests but averaged only 19. “We have a lot of confidence in Temba, he has not had a lot of cricket recently but the quality is there and it is a good ground for him,” Du Plessis said. The other position under discussion is that of seamers Lungi Ngidi and the more experienced Morne Morkel, with the former struggling with injury. He took a match aggregate of 5-75 in the second Test victory in PE. “Lungi bowled really well, but he has got a bit of a toe problem. If he is not fully fit then it is not a difficult decision.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za