THE imminent formal appointment of Sisi Ntombela as the premier of the Free State is a significant move that will bring much-needed change to the province, University of the Free State political analyst Dr Sethulago Matebesi said. He said the province was ready for a female premier. However, he said, it should be noted that calls for a female premier are not informed by the toxic machinations of national politics. “I would rather have a qualified candidate who is male, rather than an unqualified female leader who was elected to a position just for the sake of gender equality and meeting certain quotas,” he said. He said Free State was ready for a different kind of leadership. “The province is in some ways, more than ready for a female premier, who might well enact her political leadership differently.” Matebesi said the person looking into getting this position needed to understand what value system the new South Africa is looking for. “Ntombela has a good track record and has done well as MEC of both social development and cooperative governance and traditional affairs where she faced enormous challenges. “She has skills and the ability to make a significant difference to the people of the province. She is often dubbed as a ‘people’s person’. Change is always good and we will wait and see what she brings to the province,” Matebesi said. He said her position as the deputy chairperson of the ANC Women’s League would also strengthen her position politically. Matebesi said the ANC was during the national conference severely criticised for failing to appoint women to key provincial positions and he said Ntombela’s appointment was good for gender representation. Since the dawn of democracy, the Free State has had three female premiers. She is expected to be sworn in as premier tomorrow in the Free State legislature. An inauguration celebration of the newly sworn in premier will be held at the Free State Rugby Stadium in Bloemfontein the following day. michaelt@thenewage.co.za -MICHAEL TLHAKUDI