The ANC in Limpopo has called on all stakeholders in the food services sector to cooperate with the government in order to arrest the spread of listeriosis throughout the country. “The Department of Health is working around the clock with all stakeholders concerned to ensure that the disease is brought under control and that the distribution of products, which are likely contaminated, is also stopped,” ANC provincial secretary Nocks Seabi said. Monday saw national retailers start the process of removing all ready-to-eat, processed meat products produced by Enterprise Foods and Rainbow Chicken. WATCH: Consumers react to #EnterpriseRecall | https://t.co/8l2Rya9wir #Listeriosis pic.twitter.com/pUtyAwJgHC — ANN7 (@ANN7tv) March 5, 2018 Minister of Health Aaron Motsoaledi on Sunday confirmed that Enterprise Foods had been implicated in the contamination, resulting in 948 laboratory-confirmed cases of listeriosis countrywide. The National Consumer Commission (NCC) issued notices to recall all products produced at Enterprise Foods in Polokwane, Germiston and Free State factories respectively and to cease production as a result of tests linking the listeria monocytogenes ST6 strain positively with these factories. Various supermarket chains, including the likes of Woolworths and Pick n Pay have had consumers returning the affected products. “Communities are also urged to stop buying and consuming these products,” Seabi said. Listeriosis deaths Meanwhile, trade union Cosatu said the death of more than 180 people from a treatable disease was alarming and more ought to have been done by government to protect citizens. “The department could have done more to rope in other stakeholders to assist in the awareness campaign. These deaths could have been avoided. This is nothing but a failure of political leadership. The ministry and department of health cannot continue to explain away their failures that have deadly consequences. The department of health needs a serious shakeup because for country, with a very high disease burden, the failure of the department of health have deadly consequences,” national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said. Cosatu has urged members of the public to visit a medical facility if they suspect that they have contracted the disease. At the same time, the PAC has criticised the government for the handling of the crises. “The deaths of innocent people is the result of the state consciously abdicating its fundamental role to protect its people.The ministers are responsible for the deaths, the government is also responsible for another crime, the uncontrolled of hiking food,” spokesperson Kenneth Mokgatlhe said. -TNA Reporter