Minister of Rural Development and Land Reform Maite Nkoana-Mashabane has moved to allay fears on discussions and speculation relating to the recent motion passed by Parliament to allow for the expropriation of land without compensation pursuant to the resolution of the ANC. Nkoana-Mashabana was responding to the unease that has followed last week’s decision by parliament to agree to table a motion that will enable the expropriation of land without compensation. Nkoana Mashabana said Parliament will establish a Constitutional Review Committee to consider all aspects of expropriation without compensation, including the legal and economic aspects thereof. “The resolution of Parliament thus sets forth a process and the Constitutional Review Committee must report back to Parliament by 30th August 2018.” Nkoana-Mashabana said President Cyril Ramaphosa has during his state of the nation address gave an assurance that the expropriation of land without compensation will be done in a manner that will ensure food security, increases agricultural production and improves economic growth. She said the Land Audit report on private land ownership by race, gender and nationality, released by the Department earlier this year, reveals that black South African’s own only 4% of the land in this country. “This is a direct result of the historical injustices that resulted in skewed land ownership patterns along racial lines; hence this matter cannot be left unresolved. “The Department meanwhile will strive to accelerate land reform within the current policies and legislation whilst the Parliamentary processes are being finalised.” “The Department has over the Medium Term Expenditure Framework been allocated by the National Treasury a sum of R10.8b to accelerate settlement of the 2581 restitution claims and R4.2b to acquire 291 000 hectares of strategically located land,” she said. She urged all South Africans, investors and the international community to exercise patience and trust the capabilities of Parliament to handle the matter appropriately in the interest of all South Africans and all who live in South Africa. “The Department is constitutionally enjoined to change the skewed land-ownership patterns while maintaining economic growth, food security, increased agricultural productions which are priorities for the Government and this Department. “We shall, in this regard, continue to follow political undertakings and make necessary input into parliamentary processes to address land dispossession, rural development and food security: The time is now!” Nkoana-Mashabana said. -TNA Reporter 