IN THE twilight zone of drug addiction, the desperate craving for the next fix often wrestles with the desire to clean up, get off the streets and lead a normal life. Even when an addict does get help and manages to give up the habit, it becomes a lifelong struggle because “once an addict always an addict”. Lerato Mbhele, 28, from Kagiso who started using drugs when he was 12 years old after his father died, knows this only too well. “I was introduced to nyaope in 2010 after being released from prison for highjacking because my friends and I wanted money to buy drugs. I am now addicted to heroin. I really want to stop using drugs and not relapse again. “My family took me to rehab but after six months I relapsed because I was labelled a druggie and if anything went wrong in the community I was the first suspect,” he said. Mbhele also knows about how easy it is to slip from a life of addiction into a life of crime as the desperate need to get money for the next high becomes all consuming. The New Age caught up with Mbhele while he and his friends were ripping off steel from a shop in Sivewright Street that was burnt during the recent attacks on Nigerians by Krugersdorp residents for allegedly selling drugs to the youth and owning brothels in the area. “The money we get from exchanging this steel will amount to more than R800. With my share I am going to buy myself heroin,” he said. Krugersdorp Christian Heritage Church pastor Keith Williams, who works among the drug addicts in Krugersdorp, said: “The problem starts with poverty. Children grow up with no hope and find an escape in drugs. A lot of the young ones come to the church. They have been rejected by their families because of their addiction and the problems they cause at home. “Many young girls are forced to prostitute themselves to get money for drugs.” Some addicts become beggars while others still have enough motivation to try and earn their money. Lebogang Moloi, 24, who begs on Empire Road in Johannesburg, said most times he is able to collect enough to buy essentials, which includes drugs. “I am a heavy marijuana smoker. I use some of the money that I get here to buy weed. With the rest I buy toiletries so that I am not too dirty when I’m out asking for money here,” Moloi said. Rhulani Baloyi, 27, washes windscreens of cars travelling on Empire Road to support his daughter and pay for heroin. He started using drugs at the age of 18. “Heroin costs me R30 but my friend and I usually share the cost because it is too expensive for people doing our kind of job. “I tried to quit but the rehab centre I went to did not have a proper programme, they did not even give us detox medication,” he said. Baloyi’s friend Molebogeng Huma, 27, also washes windscreens. “I smoke weed but being here is not just to satisfy my drug habit it is also to send money back home because I have a four-year-old daughter,” Huma said. Meanwhile Mtase Makhantu, 34, spends most of his day in the veld across the Gautrain offices in Midrand as he hustles for money to get by. He said he collects papers, plastic and tins to recycle. “I use the money I make to buy food for my home and I pay rent of R150,” Makhantu said. Assisted Recovery Centres of Africa’s (Arca) Dr Prakash Naidoo warned that drug addiction was a problem among all sectors of society rich and poor and cuts across race and gender. “The rich are mostly addicted to cocaine and alcohol, while the poor are usually addicted to marijuana and heroin,” Naidoo said. sisandam@thenewage.co.za -SISANDA MADWANTSI