The South African Reserve Bank (Sarb) and National Treasury have published a consultation paper on payroll deductions in order to get comments on the appropriate regulatory option for addressing the abuse of payroll by collectors like the financial product or service providers. The paper focuses on addressing issues relating to discretionary or voluntary payroll deductions covering all employees in South Africa. These include employees in both public and private sectors. “Examples of discretionary or voluntary payroll deduction include repayments of home, car or other types of personal loans, deductions for savings products or insurance premiums,” the Reserve Bank said in a statement. According to the Reserve Bank, the number of entities that extend credit and offer products and services in order to deduct debt repayments, insurance premiums and payments towards savings products from payroll in a service commonly referred to as payroll deduction, has increased in recent years. “These services are usually offered with prior agreement between employers and employees and, in certain instances, are requested or initiated by financial institutions, including financial intermediaries.” “At their best, payroll deduction services can lower the credit risk to financial product or services providers making, the collections and therefore increase access by employees to a broader range of financial services.” The Reserve Bank said payroll deductions could also promote preferential collections and information asymmetries as there were also unscrupulous operators who abused the deduction services system that leaves employees with very little to take home. “This work is part of a broader set of reforms aimed at cleaning up and improving the entire debt-collection system to increase confidence in the payment system and to ensure that payments are collected from employees’ salaries and or consumers’ bank accounts and paid over to collectors or service providers in a manner that is safe, efficient and that affords the necessary protection to the consumers and/or employees, the collections system and the payment system as a whole.” These reforms, according to the Reserve Bank, have to be undertaken carefully in order not to discourage employer-employee benefit schemes and arrangements that will make access to credit, insurance or savings products more difficult, or expensive. The Sarb said the move required balancing the protection of employees from abuse with making it easier to collect debt, premiums and deductions for savings products via the payroll and avoiding deliberate by-passing and undermining of the formal national payment system collection methods. “That is why, for example, all options explored in the discussion paper propose the setting of a threshold for payroll deductions as a way of guaranteeing that each employee is still left with a decent amount of money after the payroll deductions.” The two bodies said their objective was to ensure that the payroll deduction system treated employees fairly and protected them from abuse, remained a safe and efficient means of collection, was transparent, did not promote undue preference, prevented financial crimes like fraud in the payroll deduction system and promoting access to financial services. -TNA Reporter