The Free State High Court has heard of the fragile mental and physical status of convicted Danish mutilator Peter Frederiksen. The court heard how the suicidal man has confided in the nursing staff at the Grootvlei prison. Fredericksen has been found guilty on 36 charges including rape, possession and production of child pornography, assault, fraud and murder. Grootvlei’s nursing operational manager Nombeko Taitai-Sonti said Frederiksen had hinted to them that he wanted to take his life. She said although Frederiksen had not attempted suicide as yet, he had said that he was contemplating committing suicide. “We have not taken the claims lightly, that’s why we referred him to the psychologist to have sessions with him,” Taitai-Sonti said. The nurse said Frederiksen was also depressed because he had hypertension. “He is receiving treatment but is under control,” she said. She said he was also showing signs of depression although this was not unusual in persons who had been convicted. Taitai-Sonti said Frederiksen was being monitored 24 hours a day. Earlier in the day, Johannes van der Merwe, manager at the correctional services department of social services, said Frederiksen should be given a life sentence because he did not show any remorse for his actions and was a danger to society. He said in a report read out in court that Frederiksen had to be removed from society and be jailed for a long time. Van der Merwe also said that Frederiksen’s age and personal circumstances could not be used as reasons for moving away from a lengthy sentence. His lawyer Marius Bruwer argued for a lesser sentence. Bruwer said due to his fragile mental status his client should get a lesser sentence for his crimes. Bruwer said Frederiksen was a 66-year-old who was still needed by his children. He argued that the man who harboured several female genitalia in his home freezer deserved a lighter sentence and a chance to spend time with his children. Conversely, state prosecutor Amanda Bester said for his crimes, Frederiksen did not belong outside and should spend the rest of his life in prison. She said Frederiksen’s decision to conspire to murder his wife, Matsiliso Molise, was not impulsive. In her submissions, Bester said that Frederiksen planned it and he gave instructions for Molise to be murdered. Bester is asking for life in prison on this charge. Frederiksen made headlines in September 2015 after human tissue of women were found in his home. He was also found guilty of murdering his wife, Molise, in Maseru, Lesotho, in October 2015 The court earlier acquitted him on 20 of the 58 charges he faced. These charges dealt explicitly with the human tissue found in the freezer. The judge held that the National Health Act does not make the removal of human tissue (clitorises) without the person’s permission illegal. Judge Johann Daffue also found Frederiksen guilty on a count of conspiracy to commit murder, influencing a state witness and various contraventions of the Firearms Control Act. The sentencing that is expected to last until Friday continues again this morning. -MICHAEL TLHAKUDI