ON PAPER, Stuart Baxter’s plan looks promising, but former national coaches Shakes Mashaba, Gordon Igesund and Pitso Mosimane could also claim that they had brilliant plans on paper for Bafana Bafana.Even Steve Komphela had a grand vision when he took charge of Bafana on an interim basis a few years ago. What everyone is looking at now is how Baxter will implement his vision, given his statement recently that he “will not” unleash his team to play expansive football, choosing to pay more attention to the team’s structure as a means to make it a winning outfit. Having started with a new side yesterday that saw the teams 1-1 at full time, the friendly in Zambia went to penalties with SA taking it 7-6. The match saw Motjeka Madisha, Reeve Frosler and Buhle Mkhwanazi as a new back four, with Phakamani Mahlambi, Aubrey Modiba and Lebo Mothiba (who scored in the 51st minute) also starting, expectations have since grown that he is on to a successful formula. In truth, the young squad do not yet put fear in the hearts and minds of any opponents, but with time, considering where all the players are playing and their importance to their teams, opponents could well soon respect them. Mahlambi is on the books of Egypt’s Al Ahly, Mothiba is a first-choice striker for former champions Lille, Modiba is holding his own in a SuperSport United side that went to the final of the CAF Confederation Cup, Frosler won the league with Bidvest Wits and Motjeka Madisha has already won the CAF Champions League with Mamelodi Sundowns. There are still Percy Tau, Teboho Mokoena and Ryan Moon among the youngsters who can become major players for the national team. There are already glimpses that show how the new-look team is integrating well, with young players like Modiba embracing their places in the national team wholeheartedly. Even without players like Tau in the team, who was kept back for the next match against either Zambia or Zimbabwe, Baxter remains confident that the path he is taking is the right one. Modiba, one of the youngsters in the team, before the match explained what the exercise against Angola was focused on and described the way senior players such as Bongani Zungu, Kamohelo Mokotjo and Themba Zwane were aiding the younger ones. “The game against Angola is important for the players to gel well and know the coach’s philosophy. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za