DOUBTING South Africans are so used to Bafana Bafana choking in important matches that they have refused to see the newly assembled national team as making any kind of inroads. Even the fact that Bafana beat Zambia 2-0 in the final of the Four Nations Tournament in front of Chipolopolo’s fans at the Levy Mwanawasa Stadium has not made a difference. In that match, Bafana’s young guns such as Percy Tau, Lebo Mothiba, Siphesihle Ndlovu and Teboho Mokoena went against the big guns of Zambia and won the match comfortably. Tau and Mothiba scored the goals that saw Stuart Baxter’s men claim the title, with France based Mothiba making it two goals in two matches at the tournament. The overall contribution of the young players had Baxter chuffed and the fact that they did it against Zambia left Bafana coach a satisfied man. “It was not easy against Zambia. They were on the front foot. We knew we would be dangerous in transition. The difference was that Zambia were more athletic, lively and aggressive. They were difficult to pin down. They pushed us back in the second half and had us defending deep,” Baxter said. “I don’t think we were clinical enough. I am delighted with the character shown, especially by the young players in the two games. They dealt with Zambia’s high pressure game better and we found this tournament to be tougher and at a higher level than Cosafa. And Zambia are a great side that will get better with time.” It was not just the young players who were praised by Baxter and the Zambians, with Chipolopolo coach Wedson Nyirenda singling out goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune for plaudits. Baxter too talked about his senior players, especially Keagan Dolly who provided an assist to Mothiba’s goal against Zambia how he is contributing to the changed team. “Keagan has had injuries and problems adapting and getting into the Montpellier team in France. I travelled to France and spoke to him and his coach. We discussed what we think is the best way forward for him,” Baxter said. “They play him as a No 10. I think he is better if he starts wide and comes in. I think if he stands and has his back to goal, then he is not strong enough to play that way. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE