FOR many women, there are several things that can block a healthy sex life. To make matters worse, not only is the topic of sex surrounded by a plethora of social and moral taboos, many women don’t even know how to deal with some of the varied sexual dysfunctions they may have to deal with at some point in their lives. Whether it’s the loss of sexual desire, problems with arousal, difficulty reaching orgasm, painful intercourse, or stress incontinence and menopause, many women – young and adult – continue to suffer in silence due to lack of knowledge or skill on how to cope with them. If not shame, guilt and condemnation they experience as the result. No need to suffer in silence The O-shot, a game changer promising various sorts of sexual and medical benefits to both men and women, has become the buzzword in medical aesthetic circles worldwide. Nicole Kanaris, a cosmetic doctor specialising in Botox, fillers and vampire facials among others, is the only certified doctors’ trainer in South Africa for the O-Shot. Given that there are only a handful of doctors offering this procedure – 500 worldwide and just more than 10 in South Africa – we gladly accepted a special invitation from her to experience for the first time in South Africa, a live O-Shot from her practice room at Mode De Vie Medical & Aesthetics at the Eden Meadows, east of Johannesburg. “The actual O-shot will not be visually shown, but instead the patient will be filmed and described the procedure and her feelings of it, therefore educating the masses,” the invitation read in part. The O-Shot is a trademarked clinically proven medical technique known as platelet rich plasma therapy. All natural and painless, the non-surgical procedure uses the patient’s own blood and body’s own natural healing ability to improve sexual health. It is said to appeal to all women, even mothers who have gone through bodily changes during childbirth “and wish to rejuvenate their vaginal and clitoral function”. The procedure may help alleviate bladder leakage, dramatically improves sensitivity, while significantly enhancing one’s sex drive among other things. Upon arrival, we were introduced to the patient, who for the purpose of the procedure will remain anonymous and be known only as Mrs O, a 52-year-old married mother of three. All her children were birthed through Caesarian section, which left her needing a hysterectomy after a cyst was discovered on one of her ovaries that had to be removed. During the process, doctors accidentally caused a bladder wall injury and at the age of 48, she was forced into early menopause and to make matters worse, “I was completely incontinent and literally couldn’t hold the urine at all,” Mrs O said as she comfortably laid down on the stretcher bed facing away. Explaining how the process works as she leaned over Mrs O, Kanaris said: “The O-Shot is a quick non-surgical office procedure lasting about an hour. We get the patient to come in and we ask questions in order to get to the root of her problem.” Kanaris started off by extracting blood from Mrs O’s arm, in a quick procedure lasting about a minute. “With the O-Shot we are using natural substances, so we are literally taking the patient’s blood, spinning it down to extract platelets which have degenerative properties and we inject these very platelets inside,” she said as she prepared to prick a needle into Mrs O. “We first have to numb area with local anaesthetics before injecting the platelets into the clitoris (1ml) and interior vaginal wall (4ml). “Because the vaginal wall is close to the urethra, this helps with stress incontinence and also since it’s close to your G-spot, it helps with sensation in the area. “The vaginal shot helps a lot with lubrication, libido and tightening while the clitoral shot is the one that makes you more sensitive to clitoral stimulation.” In all, “this is the shot that basically regenerates the vaginal area, and helps with various medical conditions”, she said. It involves the rejuvenation of collagen, new blood vessel formation and remodelling of your tissues, taking place in six weeks to three months. For increased results with urinary stress incontinence, a patient may need more than one procedure. So who is the best candidate for the O-Shot, one social media user asked? “It could be a 20 year old whose has been in a relationship and has never had an orgasm, or a 40 year old who’s had two children through normal delivery and leaks urine or lack of libido due to a hectic lifestyle. So it’s going to take you to another level,” Kanaris said. Life after O-Shot With this being Mrs O’s second O-Shot in 18 months, it was interesting for the trio of us to hear how the procedure has literally changed her life. “After reading an article about you Dr Kanaris, I started doing more research about it and when I saw all the advantages from a sexual point of view and stress incontinence point of view, I thought I’m killing two birds with one stone,” Mrs O said. She’s on hormone replacement therapy. “Before I had the first one, if I got cold, I literally couldn’t go out because just by coughing and sneezing, I wet myself. “So I got to walk around with liners and clean underwear. I couldn’t go to parties, I couldn’t dance, I couldn’t jump on a trampoline. I couldn’t do things that normal people do,” she said with a piercing voice. “It was quite stressful and embarrassing, you know you don’t want to stink of urine all the time. It’s embarrassing.” On how it helped with incontinence, she said without hesitation: “I would say there’s been about an 80% improvement. I can now sneeze, cough and jump with not too much effort and not wet myself. “The second thing is that I’m married to a man a lot younger than me, so intimacy is obviously a very important part of my married life and being forced into menopause made me not interested in sex. No more feeling, low libido, I had no sensitivity.” In terms of lubrication, “pre-O-Shot terrible, post O-Shot fabulous”, she said. “I also just want to mention, from my husband’s perspective in terms of engorgement, there was more sensitivity for him. He felt like there was a change in that internal environment.” Mrs O admitted that she started seeing the decline in 18 months and as such she needed another treatment. Kanaris said the effectiveness of the procedure all depends on one’s health and the body’s potential to heal. “Some patients have one shot in 18 months like you did and have had 80% improvement from incontinence and others may need to have one or two more to have great results,” the doctor said. Watch: Mrs O gets an O-Shot tankisok@thenewage.co.za