 SHOWING face at Itereleng Tshwane during voter registration weekend, President Cyril Ramaphosa urged community members use next year’s national and provincial elections as a springboard to knock the DA out of power in the next round of municipal elections. Flanked by former Tshwane mayor Kgosientso Ramokgopa and Premier David Makhura, Ramaphosa rolled through the sewage-strewn community of Itireleng, where he met community members at the local Baptist church. Addressing challenges experienced by community members on water, housing, and electricity, Ramaphosa said the ANC understood why sizeable chunks of its traditional electoral voting bloc stayed away at the 2016 local government elections. However, he urged community members and ANC supporters to come out in their numbers at the 2019 poll, as well as the 2022 poll in a bid to return the ANC to power in the metro. “In the elections of 2016, we didn’t win, some stayed home and did not vote and others were angry. Those who don’t care about the nation (DA) came in. “Vote so the ANC can have all the seats in national and provincial government. So we can take all of the seats and come back to govern in Tshwane. In 2022, we are taking them out,” Ramaphosa said. Community members such as Sara Dinaka used the opportunity of the President’s visit to voice their service delivery grievances. Dinaka said she had been a resident of Itereleng for eight years and that in that time, no improvements had happened. “Our living conditions are terrible. We are affected by problems here such as poverty as we don’t have jobs, crime, sanitation and electricity and our children are drowned in drugs as they don’t have extramural activities,” Dinaka said. “Even the same church he visited has also connected electricity illegally,” she said. Bare wires leading to the church could be easily spotted. The visit forms part of the IEC’s drive to update the voters’ roll in preparation for the 2019 general elections. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO ANDKUTULLO MADISHA bonolos@thenewage.co.za