TWENTY-EIGHT people arrested from five hijacked properties in the South of Johannesburg are expected to appear in the Magistrate’s Court today. On Tuesday evening, four out of five alleged property hijackers were arrested while one escaped and is on the run. Another 24 people were arrested for trespassing and contempt of court following an operation at five hijacked properties in the same area. One undocumented foreign national was also arrested during the operation. The city of Johannesburg said Home Affairs is expected to process the suspect. With respect to some of the properties, the owners had evicted unlawful occupiers and hijackers from their properties, however, these unlawful occupiers then forcibly moved back into the properties, trespassing and failing to adhere to an order of court in the process. The suspects were detained at the Johannesburg Central police station. “I am pleased to announce that during the operation four properties which were in the hands of the hijackers were also handed back to their rightful owners. The owners have arranged their private security to guard these properties. The total number of properties that have been handed back to their rightful owners now stands at 22,” Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba said. The operation was led by the city’s Group Forensic and Investigation Service department, working together with the police, the department of home affairs, social development and the Johannesburg metropolitan police department. “I am informed that in the case of one of the properties, hijacked four years ago, the hijacker has been collecting monthly rental of R21 000,” Mashaba said. About 300 buildings are confirmed as hijacked in the city. The city has conducted an audit of some 500 bad buildings. Twenty-four of the buildings belong to the city. Fifteen property hijackers have been arrested. Mashaba said criminals must know that they might run but there is no place for them to hide in Johannesburg. “The city will not leave any stone unturned when dealing with criminal activities within its area of jurisdiction and we will continue to intensify the raids at these bad and hijacked properties with the assistance of police and other law enforcement agencies. “I would like to thank the police Gauteng provincial commissioner, Lt-Gen Deliwe de Lange for her commitment in addressing the challenge we are faced with by establishing a dedicated team that will investigate property hijackings in conjunction with the city,” he said. Socio-Economic Rights Institute executive director Stuart Wilson said when it came to the city’s plan to expropriate buildings, there was nothing wrong in principle with using the city’s powers of expropriation to take control of buildings that are required for public housing. ntombin@thenewage.co.za -NTOMBI NKOSI