The EFF has called Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba a “pathological liar” in his response to questions over the Guptas’ citizenship. While addressing the media on Tuesday over the citizen status of the Gupta brothers,  Gigaba said they were not South African citizens. He said Ajay Gupta was a permanent citizen holder but not a South African citizen and neither was his brother, Atul. But the EFF on Wednesday said Parliament’s portfolio committee on home affairs had initially been told that Atul had granted citizenship under “special circumstances”. “Today, he has contradicted himself, saying they (the Guptas) are not citizens but actually have a permanent residence.After lying to a court of law, Gigaba has once more lied about the citizenship status of the Guptas. Today, Gigaba told the media that the Guptas were not citizens because they refused to renounce their Indian citizenship,” the EFF said. In his explanation, Gigaba said that the Guptas had applied for citizenship in 2013 but it was rejected in 2014, whereupon they appealed – but their appeal was also overturned. Meanwhile, according to Gigaba, Ajay’s application for naturalisation was also rejected. “Yet, we know for sure that Atul Gupta and Rajesh Gupta are South African ID holders, registered to vote in Ward 78, of Johannesburg, Saxonworld Primary School Voting Station. We also know that they hold South African passports; this is evidence that they are South Africans, or that Gigaba granted them full South African citizenship.” The party said that it would write to the office of the Public Protector, to initiate an investigation on the exact citizen status of the Guptas. The EFF said resident Cyril Ramaphosa must “dispense with Gigaba with immediate effect”. This is the second time Gigaba is accused of lying. He was previously accused of having lied under oath while giving testimony during his first tenure as Home Affairs Minister in a case that was filed by an aviation company that sought to open a private immigration terminal at OR Tambo International Airport. -TNA Reporter