Following a decision by the EFF to go ahead with a vote of no confidence in Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip, the party’s leader Julius Malema has been accused of being a racist by Western Cape Premier Helen Zille. The DA believes that the actions by the EFF are due to the fact that the mayor was white. DA leader Mmusi Maimane also said: “The decision by the EFF to punish the DA and ultimately move against a DA-led mayor because of the colour of his skin, is a decision that we simply cannot accept.” In a series of tweets, Zille slammed Malema’s perceived approach on racism. A twitter post applauding the DA on its victory following the announcement that the NPA will be reinstating charges against former President Jacob Zuma triggered a Twitter confrontation between Malema and Zille. Jacob Zuma would not have been heading to court if it weren’t for the DA’s relentless pursuit of his case. The benefits will accrue to all South Africans, bar perhaps one. #ZumaCharges — Waldimar Pelser (@waldimar) March 16, 2018 Compare this consistent principled determinnation with the EFF Flip flopping on this issue. In fact if you research the EFF positions on issues of major national importance since their inception, you will see that “Flip flopping”is the only constant. https://t.co/6m3cwfpbl7 — Athol Trollip #TrollipForChair (@AtholT) March 17, 2018 The leader of the EFF leader said: Hahaha, you are going white man. I’ve got no sympathy for whiteness, it feels so good for a black child to determine the future of the white one. #Kubo — Julius Sello Malema (@Julius_S_Malema) March 17, 2018 There you go, Julius you’ve now confirmed the real reason for my removal. Not those fudgey contrived reasons provided in your Councillors motion. Just have the courage of your racist convictions and say what you mean. — Athol Trollip #TrollipForChair (@AtholT) March 17, 2018 And there you have it folks. Undisguised racism. Nothing to do with performance, work ethic, delivery, integrity. Just the colour of Athol’s skin. Apartheid and racial prejudice live on. https://t.co/MOz2ornN6k — Helen Zille (@helenzille) March 17, 2018 I trust that, to be consistent in his racism, Julius chooses to eschew the skill and commitment of every white person. For example, I trust that none of his son’s teachers are white. https://t.co/MOz2ornN6k — Helen Zille (@helenzille) March 17, 2018 -TNA Reporter