DESPITE President Cyril Ramaphosa threatening land grabbers with arrest, hundreds of people were already invading land in Olievenhoutbosch shortly after he visited the area. Ramaphosa was in the township in Centurion on Sunday afternoon as part of a voter registration drive. He was in the area when the invasion started on vacant land, some of it church property. “No one has the right to invade land. This is a clear sign of disorder and the violation of law. Those who try to occupy land without permission will face the full might of the law,” he said. The land invaders claimed they paid R100 each to be allocated stands by a man referred to as Peter. They erected shacks on the vacant land situated along the R55 highway and in between two low-cost housing residential complexes. Most of the people came from the township and insisted they had been waiting for RDP houses for years. The invasion started on Sunday night and by yesterday morning the stands had been allocated and vendors had set up stalls selling building materials. “I am a grown man. I need my own place. I have two children and a wife while working as a security guard. I pay rent of R1 200 a month in the township. People are grabbing the stands. We might be lucky. I even went to register to vote this side,” Malesela Mokonyama, 40, said. However, some of the land invaded belongs to Hope Restoration Ministries . The ministry had to call police to intervene on Sunday evening. Speaking on behalf of the ministry, Cain Lerumo Matloko said: “We brought police and explained to the people that the land belonged to the church and we showed them the title deed.” In the past four days, the city of Tshwane has had three land invasions with the others being in Hammanskraal and East Lynne. Throughout yesterday the city’s metro police were demolishing illegally built shacks in Hammanskraal Unit D after a land invasion throughout last week. In East Lynne, 180 shacks were demolished leading to community members going on the rampage and blockading certain streets in the vicinity. The invasion took place on Saturday. “The effective prevention or management of the unlawful occupation of municipal land requires all of us to work together,” TMPD spokesperson Isaac Mahamba said. “It requires planning for the future to ensure that all residents have access to basic services and housing opportunities in communities which are safe. And for this reason, we cannot condone illegal occupation of land.” This was not the first time police had to be called to Olievenhoutbosch. In December after 71 people forcefully moved into RDP houses that had not yet been allocated to their rightful owners the police were called. Gauteng department of human settlements head Matilda Gasela said the department had since obtained an interdict against further invasion of houses in the area and was also in the process of evicting 71 people. “The department is concerned that there are criminal elements in the community who continuously mislead the community. “We call on law enforcement agencies to take strong action against them. It seems that there is a group that has concerted efforts to bring anarchy to the community of Olievenhoutbosch. We call on the community not to be misled by opportunists,” she said. While the city battles to contain the land invasion problem, frustration is growing among formal housing residents in Country Estates around Centurion and Midrand. “I can’t buy a house for R2m and the next thing a shack gets erected in front of my house. We had to watch rubber bullets flying here as police tried to stop the invasion,” a woman who owns a house in Savanna Hills Estate said. kutullom@thenewage.co.za -KUTULLO MADISHA