THE eThekwini municipality is preparing to suspend three officials in connection with two multimillion-rand scandals over tenders which came to the surface in the past eight days. At an impromptu media briefing yesterday at the city hall, the city manager, Sipho Nzuza, said two officials from the city’s sanitation department would be suspended after being fingered for a R36m tender for toilets that were never built. Nzuza said one official would be suspended after being implicated in a R90m contract for a refuse bags tender that was awarded to a company that failed to meet its obligation. The unmanned officials are also likely to face criminal investigations by the Hawks. The toilets tender was given to four companies that did not deliver on their mandate. The
companies – Magubane Plant and Contractors, Uhlanga Trading Enterprise, Soundrite Sound and Temblos-SA were allegedly paid in advance but did not deliver the toilets to in rural KwaXimba and KwaNyuswa. For the refuse bags tender, a company called Persian Star Investments 11 was given the 36 months contract but failed to deliver. The officials flouted a number of rules like not conducting a site inspection where the company was to produce the refuse bags. The company also lied when tendering by claiming experience in plastic bags manufacturing when it had none. Nzuza said the city’s own investigation unit found that there were allegations of fraud, corruption and maladministration by the officials. “I have implemented the recommended action which includes initiating disciplinary processes against those implicated pending further investigation and ensuring that the matter is dealt with in terms of the Labour Relations Act and within the ambits of the law,” Nzuza said. “Further action taken includes laying criminal charges.” He further said the municipality would cooperate with various law enforcement agencies that may have a vested interest in some of the matters. He said to ensure the integrity of the process “bearing in mind that these matters will be under criminal investigation, we need to be cautious about the pronouncements we make on these matters because anything we do and say could be used against us in the court of law”. sihlem@thenewage.co.za