A NUMBER of players who played for Bafana Bafana over the past year may well feel their journeys in international football have ended after Stuart Baxter’s apparent message of out with the old,in international football have ended after Stuart Baxter’s apparent message of out with the old, in with the new. The Bafana coach clearly is targeting his vision on young players, rather than those now over 30 years old. But some, in their late 20s, such as Andile Jali, Bongani Zungu, Thulani Hlatshwayo, Itumeleng Khune, Sibusiso Vilakazi, Themba Zwane, Kamohelo Mokotjo, Daylon Claasen, Tiyani Mabunda and Kermit Erasmus might still have a chance to perform at the highest level. That will depend on how they apply themselves on and off the pitch at both club and national level. In getting rid of the “weeds” who Baxter said were clogging up the local game, both on the pitch and in administrative capacities, he wants the more experienced players to have a positive influence on the young players he intends to graduate to the senior national team. “We want the younger players, but we also want players that we know have a long future with the national team. “The ones that have the right attitude. They don’t want to be partying when they come on national camp. “We want people who are committed to this country, committed to this shirt, committed to development, who want to improve, giving the kids the basics and their experience,” Baxter said. “I am a coach who will be able match up the older and younger players. If we get it right, it could be beautiful. “But we always make the same mistakes. Was it my fault, Pitso Mosimane’s fault? Was it Gordon Igesund’s fault, or Carlos Alberto Perreira’s fault, or Carlos Queiroz’s fault? “Whose fault was it that the team has not been doing well? “Or have we not been doing well with our football development? “We have to take a leap of faith, to take that important step,” the Bafana coach said. The 64-year-old coach also wants to see the national players’ attitudes change, with playing in overseas clubs to gain more experience being their main focus. At the moment, Baxter feels the players are just happy to get PSL contracts as compared to when he was Bafana coach a few years ago, when all players were motivated to move to European clubs. Baxter feels a stronger Bafana can be a springboard for players to land big Europe contracts. “The PSL has improved so much since I was a coach the first time. At the same time, our players, when they land in the PSL now, they are too satisfied to stay where they are,” the former SuperSport United and Kaizer Chiefs coach said. “We need to make a concerted effort because we can help them make that next step. “If they are good Bafana players, they can go far. Keagan Dolly has been in and out of Montpellier. “You (the players) want to go to Barcelona. If he can play and score three goals for Bafana at Afcon, he can go on. Do they have the drive to do that? We cannot pretend and perpetuate the cycle,” Baxter said. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage. co.za