WHEN Stuart Baxter announced a new dawn for Bafana Bafana with new young players and all, the general sense was that Dean Furman would be deemed surplus to requirements. Those who were expecting this new look Bafana were left scratching their heads when Baxter read out Furman’s name during the squad announcement for the Four Nations tournament next week, that will see Zambia, Zimbabwe and Angola participating. As a matter of fact, Furman was the first name Baxter read out when he was announcing his midfielders. Members of the media at the briefing wasted no time quizzing Baxter about this. The player has on many occasions been criticised for his lack of forward passes, with others claiming that the selection of Furman shortchanged other players who have more to offer the squad and who are in form. Central to the detractors’ argument is that Furman has not been better than Mamelodi Sundowns’ Hlompho Kekana or Tiyani Mabunda in that position and that Bafana were better off without him. Statistics too seem to back that point of view, as Bafana did not win a single game when Furman was on the pitch in the World Cup qualifiers since Baxter took over. Two matches against Cape Verde were lost and two against Senegal were drawn. When the midfielder was out with an injury against Burkina Faso in Johannesburg, Bafana won 3-1, putting on one of their most convincing performances. The only time Bafana won with Furman on the pitch under Baxter was during the 2-0 victory over Nigeria in the Africa Cup of Nations qualifier last year. Even in the World Cup qualifier that Shakes Mashaba took charge of against Burkina Faso away from home, Bafana did not win, drawing 1-1, with Furman scoring. Baxter, who believes in Furman, was pressed to justify why the SuperSport United man survived the chop and the national coach said the Chelsea academy product earned his spot because is the most mentally strong Bafana player around. “It is simple. Dean Furman has a lot of qualities that other people do not have. “He has qualities that a normal player in the Premier Soccer League in South Africa does not have. That is why he gives us that balance. “Any national coach will select a team that he thinks is best. You cannot afford to have favourites,” Baxter said. “When I look at what Dean does for his club, when I look at the mental characteristics that he has, he has what other people don’t have. Therefore, he balances the squad in a way that some of the players can’t. “If I take Dean out and put in another central midfield player, I take out some of those mental skills. “We complain all the time that we are not mentally strong, but Dean is the most mentally strong player on that board. People have a right to question it. That is their opinion. My opinion is he gives a lot.” -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za