DA LEADER Mmusi Maimane has rejected the EEF’s preferred model of land redistribution as one that would strip all property owners, white and black, of their properties. South Africans would lose everything under the EFF model. “Homeowners would be stripped of their homes, business owners of their businesses and innovators of their intellectual property,” Maimane said. The DA, he said, rejected the “hatefilled racist undertones” employed by the EFF and the ANC in this debate, “which seeks to divide the country according to race for narrow political ends and which seeks to de-legitimise those who disagree”. Maimane made the comments at Constitutional Hill, where he yesterday briefed the media on the DA’s position on the land issue. He referred to a recent motion on land expropriation without compensation which the EFF tabled in the National Assembly and which was amended by the ANC before it was accepted. Beyond amending the motion, the ANC has to date not said explicitly whether it supported this model or not. “And if they do not, they have not said what alternative model they will pursue in amending the Constitution. “What is clear is that there is now sufficient support in Parliament to erode private property rights in our Constitution,” he said. There were some well-meaning South Africans who were always happy to give the ANC the benefit of the doubt. They believed that land expropriation would be orderly and benign, Maimane said. “We do not share this view. We do not believe there is any “nice” way to seize property. We do not believe that any government should be given this power. And once the government has this power, it will be very difficult ever to take it away.” Even if some people thought that the Ramaphosa government would handle this power responsibly the Constitution should protect citizens against all possible future governments. “We will not wait for the ANC to attempt to clarify how they plan for this seizure to happen. It should never happen. That is the point.” The DA, Maimane said, stood implacably opposed to any abrogation of existing private property rights. “Property rights are the bedrock of development and economic growth. Expropriation without compensation is state sanctioned theft, which is inimical to economic growth and development.”  -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN|news@thenewage.co.za