THE Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister, Zweli Mkhize, has agreed to work with the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRLC) to differentiate cults from functioning churches. Mkhize said it was important to understand the role of the commission in ensuring respect and tolerance of different views, cultures and languages as well as religious beliefs. This would be vital for social cohesion, nation building. “The commission has briefed us on many cases they have been dealing with. The Inxeba movie is one that we discussed and we are clear that they will appear in court on March 28 for more debates. Another issue that the commission has briefed us on is the Seven Angels Church, where children were being abused,” Mkhize said. He said that there was a need to close gaps between his department, the commission, the criminal and justice system and parliament. “This will allow a united way to solve problems and ensure that people’s rights and lives are protected.” Speaking in a meeting in the Municipal Infrastructure Support Agent offices yesterday, commissioner Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said discussions would take place on Friday on how to educate the commission about the difference between a church and a cult. “We need to learn such things as a nation,” Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said. The need to differentiate between the  two comes after attacks on the Ngcobo police station in the Eastern Cape about three weeks ago by members of the Seven Angels Church, which turns out is operated as a cult. The church had at least 40 “wives”, one as young as 12, who felt “honoured” when it was their turn to provide leaders of the church with sexual satisfaction. Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said it was important that they take lessons out of what happened in this case. “We need to learn as a nation to deal with this kind of thing. We need to have a process in place to make sure that should communities be faced with such an issue in the future they know how to deal with it to protect those vulnerable to such situations,” she said. She said this was a complicated process but they were able to investigate and find out ways in which people’s belief systems were being abused in the cases they investigated. sisandam@thenewage.co.za -SISANDA MADWANTSI