The ANC in Parliament on Wednesday welcomed the adoption of the Political Party Funding Bill by the National Assembly on Tuesday. The party said the adoption was in line with its 52nd conference resolution and later reaffirmed by the 53rd National Conference which said: “Public funding should be expanded in order to promote and support democracy.” The party was reacting to the adoption of the bill by the majority of the parties in Parliament, with the exception of the EFF. The DA also supported its passing – although it previously raised objections about it. Party spokesperson in Parliament Nonceba Mhlauli said such funding would be accompanied by full financial accountability and transparency by political parties, including regulation of private financing of political parties. “Foreign funding should be permitted but must be regulated to avoid abuse and manipulation by external forces in the political affairs of our country,” Mhlauli said. Mhlauli said it was because of this that the party introduced a motion in the National Assembly for the establishment of an ad hoc committee in terms of National Assembly rule 253 (1)(a) in June 2017 to inquire into and make recommendations on the funding of political parties represented in national and provincial legislatures with a view to introducing, if necessary, amending legislation. She said for the first time in 24 years of the country’s democracy, political parties would be obliged to be transparent about their sources of funding. “The bill also limits the amount individuals or entities can donate to any one political party to R15 million in a calendar year.” “In safeguarding our hard-fought sovereignty, this bill outlaws all donations from foreign governments and their agencies.” Mhlauli said furthermore, political parties are explicitly prohibited from accepting donations from any organ of state, state-owned entities, government departments or from the proceeds, to ensure the prevention of corruption and state capture. She said the most important part of the bill is how the Independent Electoral Commission (IEC) as the institution that manages political party funding that it receives from the National Revenue Fund and funds donated by the private sector into a Multi-Party Democracy Fund. “This provision will ensure that political parties are funded adequately and in a transparent manner.” -TNA Reporter