THE city of Durban was yesterday once again grounded when it experienced simultaneous protest actions in its boundaries. The first strike was that of Intertoll workers who are employed at the tollgates at Marrianhill, Tongaat, King Shaka and Umvoti, who downed tools and caused traffic backups for vehicles coming in and out of the city. While facing that headache, the township of KwaMashu burnt when angry residents blockaded the M25 road and Queen Nandi Drive. It was reported that they were protesting the killing of a taxi driver from the township by KwaMashu hostel thugs. The driver was being robbed when he met his death. A community member who asked not to be named said this angered the township’s residents who wanted to attack the hostel. He said as result of the death, taxi services from the township to the hostel had been suspended. The chairperson of the KwaMashu Taxi Association, Philani Ngwenya, confirmed the incident and identified the dead driver as Phumlani Makhanya. “We are talking to the community and the drivers to find a solution as our drivers can’t go to a place where they will be killed.” The South African National Roads Agency (Sanral) said the strike was a matter between Intertoll and its workers as it had contracted it to manage the tollgates on the N2 and N3 highways near Durban. In a statement the company said it had held several bilateral discussions with Satawu until midnight last Wednesday to try to prevent the strike but failed, hence the disruption. It said that it was close to reaching agreement on an acceptable offer and on how it should move forward on a new minimum for the industry. However, when Satawu leaders presented the offer to its members, it was rejected. “We deem it unreasonable to expect an employer to increase wages by 70% in the current market conditions. “We have proposed to the unions to establish a working committee consisting of management and trade unions to review the employee compensation and benefits. “We believe this will be a longer lasting solution as it has been successful in other industries where they have established minimum wages for the industry and not with a single employer,” Intertoll said. Itertoll said that there would be a mediation process today between it and the union. sihlem@thenewage.co.za -SIHLE MAVUSO