IF STUART Baxter’s latest manoeuvre of fully engaging with the media on Bafana Bafana affairs works, he would have succeeded where many before him have failed. The Bafana Bafana coach yesterday addressed local scribes, mapping out his plans for the national team for the year ahead, which includes the blooding of young players and qualifying for the Africa Cup of Nations top of the agenda. This is, by and large a refreshing plan of action by Baxter who in the past extended a hand to players considered veterans, such as Clayton Daniels, Robyin Johannes, Siphiwe Tshabalala and Morgan Gould, to name a few, in the failed World Cup qualifying campaign. Most of yesterday’s discussion had Baxter dropping names such as Motjeka Madisha, Aubrey Modiba, Teboho Mokoena, Sipho Mbule, Wiseman Meyiwa, Lebogang Mothiba and Grant Magerman. There were notable omissions, such as Phakamani Mahlambi and Percy Tau, who are already with Bafana – and others such as Luther Singh, Kobamelo Kodisang and Lyle Foster that Baxter will be looking at. Baxter also said he had made several trips to Europe, where he convinced Juventus right back Joel Untersee, who is at Empoli on loan, to play for Bafana Bafana ahead of Switzerland. The 24 year old has already represented Switzerland at U-21 level. “Some players will have to be moved to one side to give young players a chance. We are passionate about our national team, we want to win every game. Even when we play a friendly. I believe Teboho Mokoena is a big talent. We need to give him a chance. “I went to Europe and secured one player. He was born in Benoni. Joel Untersee, who has committed to playing for South Africa,” Baxter said. “I have been in France visiting young players like Lebo Mothiba. “There are also some experienced players that I think are good but there may be casualties. “We have to get young kids on the field. Someone has to do that. I even told people that I could stay or leave, but we have to take this all seriously,” Baxter yesterday announced that Bafana will play in a four-nation tournament against Zambia, Angola and Zimbabwe – set to take place in Ndola, Zambia, on March 19th to the 27th, but he was unhappy that the fixture was confirmed so late. That issue had Baxter so enraged that he outlined some elements that he said were needed to improve South African football. “I am not saying let’s be radical, but we have to think differently. With the games coming up, we have to do two things. There are weeds that we have get rid of. Not just on the playing field. Even at Safa House. (We must fix) our relationships with the clubs and the media, and our relationships with the players. “I have been upset by Safa because we have only just finalised our fixtures for the coming international window. We were supposed to go to Thailand. I have just found out where we are going. We also have to qualify for Afcon. “We have to commit to our younger players’ future, those that have the right attitude and want to improve.” -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za