THE ANC has began a process of “informal” discussions about aligning the election of its president with that of the country’s general elections in a bid to manage tensions arising from the party’s two centres of power challenge. Releasing the party’s 54th national congress report yesterday, ANC policy head Jeff Radebe said talks were under way in the ruling party to synchronise the terms of office of the ANC president and state president in a bid to close the gap between the two. He also shared his reflections on the acrimony that arose from the dual power structure seen during former presidents Thabo Mbeki and Jacob Zuma’s terms of offices. Radebe said a “precedent” had not been set for President Cyril Ramaphosa to be removed from office in the same fashion that his two predecessors were removed once they vacated the office as ANC president. “Are they in talks with the ANC to discuss this matter? The answer is yes, there are informal talks about this issue. Is there a precedent that has been set? The answer is no,” Radebe said. “There’s no precedent that has been set by the president not finishing his term of office as head of state. “We’ve seen it in the new administration in 1994, (then) president Nelson Mandela completed his term. It was only specific issues with (latter) presidents Mbeki and Zuma that happened,” Radebe said. He said the ANC would draw lessons from the Botswana Democratic Party on how it manages the election of its leaders with that of the national elections. “There are various permutations that comrades on an informal basis are talking about, using experiences of other countries including our neighbour in Botswana where there is a method of how the transitions happen from one president to the other,” he said. ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule said Jessie Duarte would chair the party’s newly established national dispute resolution committee. Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, Alvin Botes, Mkhesani Kubayi-Ngubane, Dipuo Letsatsi-Duba, Dakota Legoete, Candith Mashego, Hlengiwe Mkhize, Siyabonga Cwele, Mdu Manana and Zoleka CapaLanga will also sit on the committee. This comes as the ANC is battling to dissuade disgruntled party members in the Eastern Cape from pushing ahead with their bid to challenge the outcome of the party’s “festival of chairs” election conference in the Constitutional Court. “This is a committee that is now in the constitution and that’s why our members will have to come to this committee to try and resolve issues. There’s no need to go to court,” Magashule said. Regarding the upcoming motion of no confidence against Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip, Magashule said the ANC had yet to nominate its choice candidate to replace the Bay’s under-siege mayor. This after the Economic Freedom Fighters vowed to vote with the ANC in a bid to oust Trollip. “We are discussing that. We are consulting the leadership of the Eastern Cape. We have consulted the alliance structures in the Eastern Cape. We are busy with that matter. “We don’t believe that coalitions work, therefore we have not yet decided on anything,” Magashule said. -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@thenewage.co.za