THE Gauteng commissioner, Lt-Gen Deliwe de Lange, has welcomed the sentencing of two men, Sandile Nyathikazi and Nhlanhleni Nzama, who murdered two Sandringham police officers on the N3 South highway in 2015. The duo were sentenced to two lifeterms each for murder, 20 years for the murder of their accomplice and a further 55 years for attempted murder of another police officer, robbery with aggravating circumstances and possession of unlicensed firearms and ammunition. During the sentencing on Friday, judge Ratha Mokgoatlheng commented that he was surprised by the manner in which police when members were shot at almost 90 cartridges of assault rifles and more than 50 cartridges of pistols were found on the scene. Police spokesperson Col Lungelo Dlamini said that the incident took place when three Sandringham members, officers Mthokozisi Myeza, 29, and Casey Mafokoane, 36, died and Const Mafanele who was shot and wounded, spotted a silver BMW with five passengers that ignored a signal to stop along London Road in Alexandra. “They pursued the vehicle until it joined the N3 South highway. When the BMW came to a sudden halt, the occupants started shooting at the police officers and they returned fire. In the process, another vehicle, a gold Mercedes-Benz, also stopped behind the officers’ vehicle and shot at them. Myeza was fatally shot. Mafokoane and Mafanele were shot and wounded but Mafokoane died on his arrival at the hospital due to multiple wounds. Const Mafanele was admitted to Milpark Hospital where he underwent three operations and survived. One of the suspects was also shot and killed at the scene,” Dlamini said. After investigation, the two men, Nyathikazi and Nzama, were arrested. Their trial started in the South Gauteng High Court during March 2017 where 40 witnesses testified until the accused were convicted on 13 counts in March and both were sentenced last Friday. Lt-Gen De Lange said: “We are appealing to the members of the community not to cross their arms and let armed criminals run around victimising innocent citizens of this province. “Our dedicated teams of police officers are out every day to put the criminals where they belong – they must all rot in prison. “Those who continue to rob the community of service delivery by killing our police officers will be hunted down to spend their lives in prison.” dikeledir@thenewage.co.za -DIKELEDI MOLOBELA