AFRIFORUM has vowed to kick start its campaign to warn the international community about the ANC’s plans to push ahead with land expropriation without compensation into overdrive. In an interview with TV news channel ANN7, the Afrikaner interest group’s deputy CEO Ernst Roets said it would rather that South Africa face a concerted economic boycott from the global community, than see Section 25 of the Constitution being amended to make it possible for the state to expropriate land in the public interest. “The point is not to frighten off foreign investment, but indeed it is still better than the alternative, better than to go the route of not having property rights in South Africa,” Roets said. “The point here is to encourage the international community, to encourage South Africa’s trading partners, to encourage people in the UN, Davos if necessary, the World Economic Forum, to put pressure on the South African government to say don’t continue with this policy. “It’s ironic that President Cyril Ramaphosa and his business representative went to Davos and they said come and invest in South Africa, your investments are safe with us. While they are doing that, there’s a campaign to scrap property rights.” Roets’s comments come against the background of ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte saying the ruling party was opposed to AfriForum’s campaign and that it would soon address the matter with the Afrikaner interest group. “We must also engage Afriforum about the manner in which they are addressing this question about land. And I think it is a problem for South Africa that an NGO leaves the shores and goes and talks against investors to the country. That is a very serious problem that we must put on the table to the good people at AfriForum,” Duarte said. Regarding the Nelson Mandela Foundation’s call for the old apartheid South African flag to be banned, Roets said the flag was part of the country’s history and therefore it should not be thrown into the dustbin of history. “It’s not about protecting the flag, it’s about protecting the concept of freedom of speech. At Afriforum we believe that hate speech is a problem, but then when is it hate speech?
“Displaying a flag is not hate speech. Displaying the flag and combining it with a message of hatred or call to action to take up arms against black people is hate speech,” Roets said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za