The Easter celebrations are underway and as is tradition, the internationally acclaimed gospel choir, MTN Joyous Celebration, return to celebrate 22 years of praise and worship music with a sensational eight-city national tour. The multi-Sama winning group will be serenading fans over a three-night run from Friday to Sunday at the Big Top Arena, Carnival City, in the east of Johannesburg, before proceeding to tour the length and breadth of the country. Fresh from a successful live recording at the Sandton Convention Centre in December, Joyous Celebration, which boasts a team of talented artists, will usher fans into the Easter spirit through their electrifying gospel sounds. To kick-start the tour, the winning ensemble released two singles titled Umoya Kulendawo and Modimo Ke Lerato, to give fans a glimpse of the upcoming music extravaganza. Jabu Hlongwane, a pastor and one of the longest standing members of the group, said from inception, the project had always been about people. “We always have the fans in mind with every album and strive to put them at the forefront when developing our music,” Hlongwane said. The ensemble will perform tracks from their latest album, Joyous 22 – All For You, which was recorded live at Maropeng Cradle of Humankind in December. Fans of the ensemble countrywide can look out for performances in their cities, with Bloemfontein’s Vista Arena up next on April 29, followed by Good Hope Cape Town on June 1 and 2, Mpumalanga’s banquet hall in Middelburg on June 29 and 30, Durban ICC Arena on August 3 and 4, North West’s Sun City on September 1, Pretoria’s Times Square Arena on October 20 and Kimberley’s Mittah Sperepere CC on October 27. Meanwhile, patrons in KwaZulu-Natal are in for a treat as KZN Tourism in partnership with the department of arts and culture and Gagasi FM join hands to present the annual Durban Picnic Day on Sunday at People’s Park, Moses Mabhida Stadium. Offering fun lovers the opportunity to mingle with like-minded people, while enjoying great music, the outdoors and food stalls, the family-friendly event promises to deliver a memorable occasion with performances from some of the city’s very best artists and performers. Capetonians will join in the Easter celebrations from today as the 11-day interactive showcase of everything child-friendly, the Funderland Festival, opens its doors at GrandWest. Promising to leave the entire family totally bedazzled and entertained, guests, will be treated to a variety of activities ranging from e-sports, virtual reality gaming zone, mystery and magic and music and dance among others. nontokozog@thenewage.co.za