The ANC has called on its leaders and deployees to see it as their responsibility to fully cooperate with all efforts and legitimate actions seeking to eliminate all illegalities plaguing the country, and the party. The party said it was also welcoming the effort by President Cyril Ramaphosa and the legislature to end the chapter of systemic corruption and state capture. ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule on Sunday held a media briefing over a NEC meeting, which took place from 23 to 25 March at the Fire and Ice Hotel in Cape Town. “As mandated by the 54th National Conference, the NEC recommitted itself to continue with the campaign to restore the integrity and dignity of the state and of the ANC as an organisation and further that the fight against all manifestations of corruption and state capture should be intensified,” Magashule said. According to the Secretary-General, the ANC also discussed the possibility of renaming more public facilities and areas after former President Nelson Mandela and ANCWL stalwart Albertina Sisulu in their honour, as they would have turned 100 this year. He said the party was also looking at how other national days could be used to educate new generations about the country’s history and the responsibilities they have towards them. Magashule said the party also welcomed the notable initiatives to create jobs for the youth and the decision by rating agency Moody’s not to downgrade the country’s economy any further. “The NEC further welcomed the imminent launch of the Youth Employment Service (YES) this coming week. This initiative is a partnership between government and the private sector and aims to see one million young South Africans being offered paid work experience over the next three years.” Without directly referring to the upcoming case of former President Jacob Zuma, Magashule said all members of the party had a right to offer their sympathy to anyone – but this should not in any way be done in the name of the party. He said the party would in due course convene a special NEC meeting prior to 2019 elections to deal with points that were raised at regional and provincial conferences. “The NEC noted the report of the Task Team led by Comrade Sbu Ndebele into matters relating to the 2017 Eastern Cape Provincial Conference. A process of engagement with the province to find a political solution will be initiated and led by the SGO.” -TNA Reporter