Free State sports, arts and culture MEC Mathabo Leeto is not a credible candidate to replace Premier Ace Magashule. This is according to DA provincial leader Roy Jankielsohn. Jankielsohn’s statement comes after the Hawks charged Leeto on two counts of corruption, three counts of fraud and five counts of money laundering relating to her term asmayor of the Matjhabeng local municipality. The DA said its concern came after police confirmed to one of its members at the National Council of Provinces, George Michalakis, that the charges against the MEC were indeed reinstated. “In a reply to DA member of the National Council of Provinces, George Michalakis, the minister of police confirmed that the charges were reinstated against the MEC after further investigations were conducted and the police secured additional evidence, which they were previously unable to secure, when charges were initially preferred against her'” the DA said in a statement. “In the same reply, the minister also confirmed that the matter against MEC for the Free State Department of Environmental Affairs, Tourism, Economic Affairs and Small Business Development, Benny Malakoane and six others had been set down for trial from 13 to 27 March.” Last month, the Hawks arrested Leeto, along with Bloem Water CEO Limakatso Moorosi, on charges of fraud and corruption. Leeto also faces charges relating to her tenure as mayor when she allegedly awarded a tender of R15 million to procure photocopy machines and to install telephonic systems, as well as CCTV cameras, for the municipality, allegedly without following correct tender processes. Meanwhile, the DA also discredited Finance MEC Elzabe Rockman, saying she was implicated in a National Treasury investigation involving the awarding of communication contracts to Letlaka Media and Communications while he was the director-general in the office of premier. “Even the MEC for Finance Elzabe Rockman was implicated in a National Treasury investigation involving the awarding of communication contracts to Letlaka Media and Communications, as the former DG in the office of Premier Magashule.” Magashule failed to institute criminal investigations against the DG, as stipulated in the investigation report.” -TNA Reporter