AS PART of commemorating AntiRacism Week during Human Rights Month, a pilot mobile app called Zimele Racism Reporting is being developed to fight racism in the country. The focus week calls on all who live in South Africa to get involved in rooting out racism. Executive director of the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation, Neeshan Balton, says they are very excited to be part of the pilot phase of the app but mostly emphasised that it is necessary to help those who want to report a case where they were offended on a platform that allows them to. “Too many times such cases are left not reported and victims are left with anger because they would not have reported the case. This app will help navigate hot spots of where such incidences occur,” Bolton said. He said that this pilot phase will also reveal some of the aspects that they might have not considered as they were busy creating the app. Department of Justice and Constitutional Development lawyer Danaline Franzman says they have been working on the development of the action plan to fight racism, xenophobia and other social issues that amount to intolerance of each other in this country. “It is important that we have this app as a way that will also help as evidence when cases are reported in court,” Franzman said. She says the collaboration of all involved stakeholders must continue to ensure the success of this app. Meanwhile, managing director of ROI Africa, Tonya Khoury, says she seeks to do good through social media where most cultural and racial slurs and attacks are easily spread throughout the internet at a rapid speed. She said that with technology people were able to educate one another and then created space of interaction. Therefore insight and knowledge of something different subtracted fear and ignorance. A student from Mancosa College, Shaakir Naidoo, 21, told The New Age that the Zimele Racism Reporting mobile app will be effective. “I think that people will have a direct platform to report their cases, unlike when they share them on Facebook,” Naidoo said. news@thenewage.co.za -SIPHOKAZI MNYAKA AND SISANDA MADWANTSI