SAFA presidential nominee and former professional referee Andile “Ace” Ncobo has declared war on Danny Jordaan and Safa leaders for “the raping of the statutes and the organisation”. Even without funding, as he claimed, and the “death threats” that he has received, Ncobo said at a press conference yesterday in Johannesburg that he would fight tooth and nail until Safa president Jordaan and CEO Dennis Mumble are out of Safa. “After we have a private engagements (with Jordaan) like a Ramaphosa-Zuma process for a dignified exit, we will make further announcements but for now we will defend the association from being raped,” Ncobo said. “We are taking them on. And I am not referring to the leadership of the regions. They are not complicit in this thing. There are two people here who are hellbent on raping the Safa structures – Jordaan and Mumble. Those are the people who must leave that building (of Safa House) because they are not good for our football. They must go home. It is as simple as that.” The 50-year-old former referee said while he does not harbour any intentions of being Safa president, stating that there are better people to lead the organisation than him, he only saw Fifa as the organisation that can resolve the situation by putting Safa under administration. Ncobo also claimed that he has received death threats and that he is not afraid to “die for what is right”. “I have received messages over the past six to nine months from ordinary people crying out for leadership. “Crying out for someone who is not scared to be the happiest corpse in the mortuary as long as he stands for what is right. Recently I had to go and open a case because I am receiving death threats from unknown people. “As long as they are calling, then they are not ready to kill me. Even if they succeed, I will die and be the happiest corpse in the mortuary because I would have stood for what is right. I don’t care. I think I have lived a full life. If I die any time, I don’t mind. “I don’t even have a desire to be the Safa president. “I don’t care about positions. Fifa, in terms of articles G1, G2 and G3 of the electoral code derived from the statutes, must place Safa under administration. It is prescribed in their electoral code. “There is a violation and Fifa must intervene. We are awaiting Fifa decision and that is the only decision. “Danny Jordaan must go home,” Ncobo said. Safa’s head of communication, Dominic Chimhavi, when asked to comment on Ncobo’s allegations, said: “Write what you want to write!” -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za