DEPUTY President David Mabuza, while not implicitly naming anyone, has warned those alleged to be involved in state capture that South Africa is no banana republic and that efforts would be made to bring back anyone absent from the country who is required to answer for their actions. In his maiden question-and-answer session in the National House of Provinces yesterday, Mabuza said Parliament was investigating state capture. The judicial commission of inquiry, headed by Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo, would continue with that work, he said. “It appears that the committee in Parliament will soon finalise its work. I’m sure the work will be available to the commission. Evidence that has been presented to the committee might possibly be used in the commission of inquiry. “We hope that beyond that, our law enforcement agencies will take over and do what is right,” Mabuza said. He called on MPs not to be impatient. “I don’t think we should be impatient. We are on the right track. I’m sure people will be arrested (in connection with state capture).” Asked about individuals who had apparently skipped South Africa to escape being held accountable for involvement in state capture, Mabuza said South Africa has “agreements” with other countries. Parliament’s public enterprises portfolio committee, which has been holding an Eskom inquiry, has not succeeded in persuading the Gupta brothers, former SAA board chairperson Dudu Myeni and former President Jacob Zuma’s son, Duduzane, to give evidence. The Guptas are said to be in India. Mabuza said: “We are a country that has got its own laws. We are respected among countries.” Because of its relationship with other countries anyone who has “done wrong on our shores” could be extradited. Though he did not name him, Mabuza mentioned the matter of British citizen Shrien Dewani who, charged with the murder of his wife in South Africa, returned to London and refused to return to answer questions. “There was a struggle to get that person to come and account and answer questions here. Finally, he came. “Rest assured we are a country. We are not a banana republic. “We are respected among nations. We hope that when the time comes people are subpoenaed to come.” -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN|news@thenewage.co.za