CONTRACT killings are on the rise in South Africa with KwaZulu-Natal earning the dubious title of the country’s assassination capital. An explosive report titled The Rule of the Gun – Assassination Witness by the Assassination Witness project, the University of Cape Town’s Centre for Criminology and the Global Initiative against Transnational Organised Crime (GITOC) revealed that officials working in the criminal justice system were among the most targeted for commissioned killings. KZN is fingered as the breeding ground for hitmen who carry out political, taxi and judicial killings. According to the report a large proportion of assassinations in South Africa are contracted for political, economic or social gain. There are segments of the economy that nurture and feed this criminal market, notably South Africa’s notoriously violent taxi industry, which provides a recruitment pool where hitmen can be hired, the report said. The report found that there were 159 reported assassinations in South Africa last year, up by 36% from 2016 (when 117 hits were recorded) and up by a whopping 346% from 2012 (46 hits). There was a dramatic increase in reported cases between 2014 and the end of last year. The breakdown of hits by category showed that taxi industry accounted for the largest number of hits accounting for 43%, followed by the political killings at 22% and organised crime (22%). Hits that fall in the personal category represented the smallest proportion of cases (13%). “The province that experienced the greatest number of hits in the recording period was KwaZulu-Natal, followed by Gauteng and the Western Cape,” the report says. “Analysis of each of these cases indicates that in 86% of the incidents, the victim was male, 7% involved female targets and 7% of the incidents involved the deaths of both male and female targets.” The killings in the Western Cape were attributed to drug turf wars and gang-related murders, which have become more dominant from 2015 onwards. There was a sharp increase last year in reported cases in that province, with a total of 26 incidents compared to four in 2016. The authors of the report note that most assassinations are carried out at the victim’s home – often as the victim is arriving home. They also found that targeted assassinations resulted in the deaths of many citizens but among the victims there was a notable proportion of politicians, whistle-blowers, proprietors of taxi businesses and members of the legal fraternity. “The impact of these assassinations is far-reaching, as they undermine South Africa’s democracy and judiciary and threaten fair economic competition, suggesting they are used to exert a mafia-type control over society. “But the effect is felt not only by institutions – a hit is also a human tragedy and has an overwhelming impact on the victim’s family and community. The killing of breadwinners is economically devastating for dependants.” “The data that has been collected for the report continues work that GITOC and UCT have done on assassinations related to organised crime in SA,” Prof Mark Shaw, director of the Centre for Criminology at UCT and director of GITOC said. “What is most disturbing is that there was a 36% increase in our recording of hits or assassinations to the end of 2017.” Spokesperson for Santaco in KZN, Sifiso Shangase, denied the taxi industry was the source of hitmen. He said while there were killings in the industry, they were not responsible. “Yes we have hitmen in the industry as people are being killed on a regular basis. However, we deny that we are the source of all hitmen who even kill in other provinces like Gauteng. My challenge is how they reached that conclusion as I don’t know their research method,” he said. The report also said that an analysis of the way political parties gained or lost power at the local government level revealed that more political hits take place in areas where the local government party in power has remained the same. This seems to show that hits are often related about power struggles within political parties – most notably the ANC – rather than to conflict between parties. -SIHLE MAVUSO AND SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO