EFF leader Julius Malema could not have asked for a better birthday present than the one given by Soweto PSL title contenders Orlando Pirates. Malema, who has made his love and affection for Pirates a matter of public record, turned 37 on Saturday and he was among the 75 000 plus soccer-crazed supporters who witnessed a pulsating derby between Pirates and Kaizer Chiefs on Saturday. The match ended with a 3-1 score in favour of Pirates, who are now only three points behind league leaders Mamelodi Sundowns. Malema, who was sitting next to his deputy Floyd Shivambu throughout the match, could contain his excitement every time he realised that a camera was focused on them. Soccer supporters, EFF members and ordinary South Africans took the time to tweet their happy birthday messages to Malema. A Twitter user from Kenya Gichuki Weru said Malema remained the most courageous youth in Africa and a revolutionary who would bring back Africa to Africans. #HappyBirthdayCIC @Julius_S_Malema from Kenya. You are the most courageous Youth in Africa & the revolutionary who will bring back the pride of Africa back to Africans. You inspire us to keep pushing towards a United Africa as African Youths. All the best. Viva! @EFFSouthAfrica — Gichuki Weru (@gichuki_weru) March 3, 2018 Shivambu, who is a well known Kaizer Chiefs Supporter, was gracious in defeat and wished Malema a happy birthday even though it was at the expense of his team. Congratulations Orlando Pirates for giving CiC @Julius_S_Malema a birthday present. But it happened at the expense of South Africa’s greatest Football Club, Kaizer Chiefs. pic.twitter.com/mZuDPit51v — Floyd Shivambu (@FloydShivambu) March 3, 2018 Popular sports presenter Robert Marawa was also one of many who took a moment to wish Malema a happy birthday. So on the 3rd of the 3rd month ur team get 3 goals & 3pts!! Hayike…. Happy Birthday baba!! Triplets next maybe?? 
Enjoy ur big day!! @Julius_S_Malema  pic.twitter.com/tSgTWsaTgb — robertmarawa (@robertmarawa) March 3, 2018 However, Malema will not get enough time to indulge in his birthday party leftovers as he is launching his party’s 2018 election registration campaign at the Standard Bank Arena in Johannesburg on Sunday. -TNA Reporter