FOR may years, South Africa has been searching for a dependable striker to spearhead Bafana Bafana’s attack. There is already Percy Tau, but he is not a natural target man who will wait in the box to bury chances in the mould of a Phil Masinga, Benni McCarthy, Shaun Bartlett or Lesley Manyathela. To many, Tau is rather a John “Shoes” Moshoeu-type of player at the top of his game. When Katlego Mphela burst onto the scene some 10 years ago, many thought he would be just the man to make the No 9 jersey his own. Mphela never really got to reach his full potential and since then, the hunt for a new target man has been conducted, with Bongani Ndulula and Tokelo Rantie among those who had a chance to make the position their own. They too flattered to deceive and in that period, a young striker called Lebo Mothiba was learning the ropes at French side Lille and also going on to Valenciennes on loan. When his time to make a mark came, Mothiba scored two goals in two games this weekend for Bafana against Angola and Zambia. With Lebowakgomo-born Mothiba and Tau as the main source of goals, while players like Sibusiso Vilakazi and Themba Zwane are among those who also contribute, Bafana supporters can be positive about the national team’s future confrontations. Even Stuart Baxter is happy with the striker, though he does not want too many expectations to be put on the 22-year-old Mothiba, especially since he has not yet fully settled in with his national team teammates. “When we bring in some of the young players and we get positive results and especially regarding Lebo two goals, it is easy to clutch at that and say ‘this is the golden boy’. “I think we should be patient with all of the youngsters because we want to nurture them. We have experienced players vying for positions. Lebo in particular is a sort of a non-South African South African (type of player), if that makes sense. “He is not like Chiefs’ Ryan Moon who is quick and slippery. Lebo is in your face. He hustles his opponents “He still has a bit to come in terms of his coordination, but when he gets it right, he is a hell of a target man. “He holds the ball up really well. He has a lot to learn but he is a raw diamond who, if he gets the right opportunities, will be an asset to us.” As things stand, Mothiba is an impressive player in France, where he has scored two goals in six outings since he returned from his loan stint at Valenciennes in January. He scored 11 times for Valenciennes during his time on loan, forcing his parent club Lille to recall him. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za