IT’S up to the Reserve Bank’s sevenmember monetary policy committee (MPC) to make it a happy Easter with an interest rate cut on Wednesday to follow up on last week’s good Friday when South Africa was spared a downgrade by Moody’s. One of the Reserve Bank’s most important mandates is to keep inflation in check (otherwise known as defending the value of the rand). When inflation rises too high, the Bank increases interest rates to curb spending. The good news is that inflation is at a three-year low of 4%, well below the Bank’s upper threshold of 6%. In its January meeting, the MPC was cautious about a further downgrade by Moody’s, citing that it remained a risk to the rand, but with that hurdle safely negotiated, the MPC should be much more inclined to deliver a rate cut of between a quarter and a half percentage point. A threat to inflation comes in the form of price increases for the benchmark Brent crude oil, which could go above its current $68-$70 a barrel. So far, the resilient rand has been a buffer as a strong currency makes imports cheaper. The rand has appreciated by 13.1% against the US dollar, partly through good news within South Africa and partly because the dollar has been weakening. Another factor is how the MPC will view the US Fed’s latest move to raise interest rates by 25bps last week to a range of 1.5%-1.75%. The Fed signalled two more hikes were coming this year. In January, the MPC kept the benchmark repo rate at 6.75% per annum. Five members preferred an unchanged stance, while one member preferred a 25 basis point reduction. “Moody’s decision may well encourage the MPC to cut rates on Wednesday, apart from other considerations such as lower inflation and the stronger rand,” Raymond Parsons, professor at NWU School of Business and Governance said. Bianca Botes at Peregrine Treasury Solutions, said the Reserve Bank was expected to hold repo rates steady at 6.75% or cut by 25bps as the economy slowly show signs of an uptick in line with global markets. Independent economist Sepati Morake, said with the threat of inflation gone, the Bank can cut and give South Africans a happy long weekend. “That will be a real bonus to the majority of households.” -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za