Evidence leader in the Moerane Commission of inquiry Adv Bheki Manyathi says
there is no evidence of a third force for violence within the ANC. Manyathi made the statement while delivering closing submissions during the last sitting of the inquiry into political killings in KZN. The gunning down of councillors and politicians from within the ruling party in the province had become rampant over a number of years which culminated in Premier Willies Mchunu establishing a commission of inquiry. In Manyathi’s submission, he said no conclusive evidence had been found that ANC politicians were the specific targets of “politically motivated killings”. “In one death it was a family dispute and there was also witchcraft involved while in another, it was a love relationship, where a councillor was murdered at a tavern and the killer was arrested and is serving 15 years for her murder,” he said. He also told the commission of another inter-family revenge issue which claimed the life of another politician. Manyathi said that as part of their submissions they will recommend that every murder is treated as a criminal. “We need to know the underlying issues. In a robbery, someone might be killed, but the underlying issue is robbery. This is the case in the deaths of politicians. Politicians are being killed but the underlying issues political.” Related: ‘Corruption at municipalities play part in KZN political killings’ Making recommendation to address the underlying causes of political killings in KZN, member of the evidence team Adv Andile Nqanda called for greater political and governance education for councillors. Nqanda also recommended a campaign based on moral regeneration and the rejuvenation of spirit of Ubuntu as well as a provincial cleansing ceremony to be led by Zulu King Goodwill Zwelithini as well as for traditional leaders to play more active roles in their communities. Related: ‘Our turn to eat’ syndrome fueling political violence – Mchunu Nqanda called for a cleanup and destruction of illegal weapons within the province. “There is evidence that after the violence during the 80s, although there was a collection of weapons, it wasn’t a thorough clean up.” -TNA Reporter 