Justice Dikgang Moseneke on Monday announced that government would pay R20 000 to claimants of the Life Esidimeni tragedy, for funeral costs, R180 000 for shock and trauma and R1 million will be paid to all claimants for the breach of the Constitution. Moseneke ordered that all the money be paid to the families in a lump sum no later than 19 June. “I propose to make a uniform award and I am aware of potential claimants who were not part of the proceedings. I trust that the government would pay these individuals instead of instituting a new legal dispute,” Moseneke said. The compensation in total amounts R1.2 million for each of the complainants. This is in relation to the 144 patients who died when they were relocated from Life Esidimeni facilities to NGOs across the province. This, according to the health officials, was done as a cost-cutting measure – a claim that Moseneke disputed. “Despite the claim of cost containment by former health MEC Qedani Mahlangu, she could not say whether actual savings were realised.” The Gauteng department of health has also been ordered to take further steps against its officials who could be found of wrongdoing in the saga. He said that government must take prompt reasonable steps and report the conduct to the relevant authorities against those healthcare practitioners who failed under its jurisdiction and were involved in the marathon project. This includes Gauteng health department head Dr Tiego Ephraim, Dr Barney Selebano and Dr Makgabo Manamela. Meanwhile, goverment was further ordered to pay the legal costs of all the claimants. During the presentation of his report, Moseneke lambasted Selebano, Manamela and Mahlangu for diverting responsibility and saying that the tragedy was a decision of the collective. He also blamed the key role players of being untrustworthy while giving testimony. “None of the architects had a grasp of the number of the deaths, on the totality of evidence. I conclude that Ms Mahlangu, Dr Selebano and Dr Manamela gave false information about the number of deaths to the Ombud.” -TNA Reporter