THE city of Johannesburg should work together with the provincial department of cooperative governance and traditional affairs (Cogta) to resolve issues raised by residents relating to their overvalued houses. This is according to Gauteng Premier David Makhura who said Cogta was mandated to oversee and monitor the implementation of Municipal Property Rates Acts. This comes after Makhura met with Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba over complaints relating to the General Valuation Roll for 2018. To date the city has received 4 500 objections. “I encourage ratepayers to check the values of their properties in the city’s 2018 General Valuation Roll. If they are not satisfied with the value of their properties they must use the objection processes to object,” Makhura said. “Where there are disputes on the outcomes of the objection process, residents will have an opportunity to appeal their valuations through an independent Valuation Appeal Board that can be set up by the MEC of Cogta.” Mashaba has already started with the process of issuing notices of revising property valuations to property owners. The city said it had identified 8000 residential and business property owners who have had their properties overvalued. “The valuations which have been identified as problematic have experienced considerable increases, most of which are more than 100%,” Mashaba said. “The notices make provision for a 30-day period during which property owners can provide relevant information to be taken into further account during the review process. These properties will be placed on the  Supplementary Valuation Roll.” The city said it must assume the burden to address the problematic valuations before the implementation date on July 1. This is different from the conventional objections process, which places the burden on account holders to object to the valuation and motivate for its adjustment. On Monday the mayor visited two property owners to give them their notices. Bronson Joseph, who had one of his properties in Bramley revised down from R43m to R7.4m, thanked the city for the speedy turnaround. news@thenewage.co.za -TNA REPORTER