AS THE first international break of the year draws closer, highly ambitious PSL side Mamelodi Sundowns are looking to edge closer to a third cup. As things stand, the Brazilians are in three competitions, having confirmed their place in the last eight of the Nedbank Cup following their hard-fought 2-1 victory over ABC Motsepe League side EC Bees on Tuesday night. Hlompho Kekana and Thapelo Morena scored in the come from behind win, giving Sundowns a chance to win the title for the first time since 2015. This is in addition to Sundowns being top of the PSL log with a gap of four points above Orlando Pirates. On Sunday, Pitso Mosimane’s side will be fighting to remain in the CAF Champions League when they welcome Rwanda side Rayon Sports at the Lucas Moripe Stadium. The first round second leg tie is level at 0-0 and if Sundowns win they will go to the group stage of the competition for the third consecutive season. Now aware of what to expect, having seen the Rwandan side’s style of play last week, Sundowns assistant coach Manqoba Mngqithi, who was in charge of Sundowns against EC Bees in the absence of Mosimane, said Sundowns will have few excuses if they cannot beat Rayon Sports. Mngqithi does not see much difference between EC Bees and Rayon. “Sunday’s match, like the one against EC Bees, will not be easy. We have made it difficult for ourselves playing away. If you were following the game in Rwanda, it was more or less the same as what we did against EC Bees,” Mngqithi said. “We had many good chances in Rwanda in the first half but did not score. “We nearly lost the game in the second half but they hit the upright. We could be trailing by now. But they are not a strong team. It is just that they were playing at home. We should win the match. If we don’t, then we must blame ourselves.” The 2016 African Champions did not only miss Mosimane, who was in Morocco getting his CAF pro licence, they also rested a number of their key players against EC Bees to keep them fresh for Sunday. The likes of Percy Tau, Khama Billiat, Sibusiso Vilakazi, Ricardo Nascimento, Denis Onyango, Oupa Manyisa, Teboho Langerman, Bangaly Soumahoro and Tiyani Mabunda all missed the Nedbank Cup clash, with players like George Lebese, Thokozani Sekotlong, Anthony Laffor and Siyabonga Zulu getting a rare run. Mosimane will be happy with the return of Laffor, as the Liberian has proved to be a player who enjoys playing in the Champions League having shone in the last two seasons, scoring one of the crucial goals in the first leg of the 2016 final against Egyptian giants Zamalek. The Sundowns coaching staff will also be hoping for striker Jeremy Brockie’s luck to change, as the New Zealand hitman is still struggling to break his duck after featuring five times for his new side. In fact, Ngoma and Gaston Sirino, who joined Sundowns in January amid much fanfare, are also yet to score for the Brazilians. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za