Reclaim the City movement has commemorated Human Rights Day by calling on the City of Cape Town to make land available for the poor and to offer decent housing across the city. The marchers who took part in “The Land for the Living March” delivered a memorandum to the city’s Mayoral Committee Member for Transport & Urban Development Brett Herron calling for the City to make more land available for the poor and accommodation in the city. Activists from Social Justice Coalition, Reclaim the City, the District Six Working Committee and Ndifuna Ukwazi are demanding that government take bold steps in addressing challenges relating to human settlement and housing in Cape Town. The organisations said as the country marks 105 years since the enactment of Native Land Act in 1913 and the passing of Grop Areas Act in 1950 which both dispossessed black peoples of their land and housing, substantial redress has not been made by the government. “Our city remains segregated and spatial apartheid continues. Where you live continues to determine your enjoyment of rights, the opportunities you enjoy the quality of services you can access. The City, the Province and the National Government have failed us and have failed to undo the injustices of the past,” the organisations said in a joint statement. According to the NGOs, the research that they have conducted there are over 2 700 informal settlements in South Africa today and the number increased from about 300 in 1994. “Residents living in informal settlements face inadequate living situations, poverty, unemployment, crime, illness and the constant risk of floods and fires. “The dire living conditions of poor and working-class people and the challenges with the existing housing crisis have not seen any significant improvement despite numerous policies that have attempted to address these issues.” The organisations added that with Cape Town having a housing backlog 345000, it would take 50 to 60 years for everyone to have a house as private land ownership is almost exclusively a white phenomenon as shown in the 2017 Land Audit Report. -TNA Reporter