PROTEAS captain Faf du Plessis says they can take some positives out of the way they fought back in the second innings of the first Test against Australia in Durban. Following a 118-run defeat to the visitors on day five yesterday, Du Plessis was nevertheless pleased with the manner in which they didn’t give up and believes this will give their batsmen better confidence heading to Port Elizabeth for the second Test on Friday. With the exception of Aiden Markram and Quinton de Kock, the rest of the top order batsmen disappointed on day four in pursuit of a target of 417 for victory. De Kock and Markram provided some stern resistance – following the collapse by the top order – but it was not enough and needed the help of other batsmen if the Proteas were to avoid defeat or win the Test. “Massive positive for us, how we came back in the second innings. When you’re in a position of strength like Australia were on day four, they generally blow you away quickly,” Du Plessis said. “Keshav Maharaj was brilliant in this match. The character of the batsmen who got runs. Theunis de Bruyn and Markram, were fantastic. And then De Kock at the end. Really proud of our fight. “But it was just not good enough to beat Australia who were good in this game.” Du Plessis believes that the fight put up by De Kock and Markram will spur on the other batsmen who have come under fire for their recent poor performances. If the Proteas are to come close to Australia, they will need their top order to score big totals in the upcoming Tests. In recent series, they have often relied too much on the bowlers to win matches while the batsmen have been below par. “In a big series like this, you want to step up against teams like Australia. Hopefully we can all chip in now. The biggest character of this team is that we’ll never go down without a fight. We are all looking forward to the next Test in PE.” Mitchell Starc, with his devastating reverse swing, was the star Australian bowler, capturing 4/75 in the South African second innings to go with his 5/34 in their first innings. Josh Hazlewood finished with 3/61 while Patrick Cummins and Mitchell Marsh picked up a wicket apiece. Du Plessis admitted that was the difference between Australia and his side. “There was a real difference in skill with the reverse swing. “One bowler in each team has the potential to do that to the tail. We’ve got to find ways to eliminate their tail a lot quicker. “As I said before the series, it’s going to be a real crucial part, the amount of runs scored between eight and eleven.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za