MORE than half a million children in South Africa, some as young as seven, are being used for child labour. The shocking report released by Statistics SA yesterday on the State of Children aged between seven and 17 years old, said children aren’t only used for labour and deprived of basic rights such as education and proper health, but 2.2 million of them are also orphaned. Most infringements of rights of children were found to be common in rural areas with child labour found to be prevalent in KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga and Limpopo. There were 577000 children being used for labour and while Stats SA says the number decreased slightly between 2016 and now, there was an increase in child labour cases among the white population. “Declines were recorded for all population groups, except among the white population group, where a slight increase of 0.3% was experienced. The extent to which children were engaged in child labour increased with age, with older children aged 16 and 17 years most vulnerable,” the report said. It was also found that 44000 girls aged 12 to 17 gave birth during the time the research was done, with the majority being in the African and coloured communities. This, the report said, was a contributing factor to its findings that there were less girls still attending school at the age of 17 compared to boys. Among the reasons for dropping out of school given by boys, were they had no money for fees and because of the perception that education is useless. Of the 11.4 million children in the country, 9.6 million have no access to medical aid or health insurance. Stats SA also released a report on mortality in the country where it was found that malnutrition was third on the list of causes of death among one to 14 year olds. “Intestinal infectious diseases ranked second for the age group, accounting for 6.6% deaths, followed by malnutrition occupying third ranking,” the report said. The mortality and causes of death report stated that noncommunicable diseases had taken over communicable diseases as the cause of most deaths. This as the country is experiencing an explosion of noncommunicable diseases, or lifestyles diseases as they are better known, such as diabetes, hypertension and heart and lung diseases among others. Figures contained in the report showed noncommunicable diseases accounted for 57.4% of all deaths (405 370) when compared to 31.3% of deaths due to communicable diseases. The country, however, recorded a decline in the number of deaths overall since 2007. Diabetes, a noncommunicable disease, remains the second killer after tuberculosis. “The pattern observed along with the decline in deaths is that South Africa is undergoing an epidemiological transition with deaths shifting from being more likely to emanate from communicable diseases such as tuberculosis, diarrhoea and pneumonia, to death by noncommunicable diseases such as diabetes, stroke and hypertension,” Stats SA said. The national Health Department’s Dr Yogan Pillay has welcomed the report, however he said while this is not a new finding, more measures which include behavioural shifts are needed to address the situation. Pillay said the country had been aware for quite some time that noncommunicable diseases were overtaking communicable diseases as the overall cause of mortality in the country and steps were being taken to address them. “There are a few things here – one is that you need to give people information about what keeps them healthy and what causes ill-health, the second being you must create conditions for people to practice good health-seeking behaviour and we need to have legislation especially to regulate the food industry. “The food industry is responsible for a lot of health problems. For example, sugar and salt especially in fast foods and then we must create the necessary environment for health-seeking behaviour for people to seek care as early as possible when they are not feeling well,” Pillay said. He said prevention, coupled with awareness and healthy lifestyles were among the things that must be done to deal with lifestyle diseases. However, South Africa is not the only country experiencing the explosion of noncommunicable diseases as figures by the World Health Organisation show. -LERATO DIALE|leratod@thenewage.co.za