THE gay community in the North West has expressed concern at the number of its members killed recently. Founder and chairperson of North West Gay Umbrella Mildred Maropefela said six people had so far been killed and that was six too many. Maropefela said the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex (LGBTI) people were living in fear because of the attacks directed at them. The gay community held a 5km walk in Mahikeng at the weekend to raise awareness of the rights of gays and lesbians in the community. “Our partnership with Motsweding FM was beneficial to us to deliver our message to the people. Since the beginning of this year in the North West province alone six gay people have been killed. “North West is second after Gauteng regarding the murders of gays and lesbians. It’s not right that in this day and age there are people who don’t want to accept the existence of gay and lesbian people. “We will not rest on our laurels. We will continue to fight for our rights and space as human beings,” Maropefela said. She said there were gays who were afraid to report cases of hate speech due to second ary victimisation by officials. “We are still waiting for Parliament to pass the hate crime bill so that it becomes part of our law,” Mildred said. She expressed optimism that awareness campaigns were helping in changing perceptions by members of the public. “The march was a success. During the week we had a dialogue on issues affecting gay and lesbian with various stakeholders and government department making presentation,” Maropefela said. One of the many people who spoke of their challenges, Kokeletso Legoete, 28, said her parents did not accept that she was a lesbian. “At first my parents were taken aback when I told them. Right now they have accepted me. “Be yourself and be proud of who you are and fear not. We were also born in God’s image,” she said. Commission for Gender and Equality spokesperson Sediko Rakolote said: “One thing that we must do as a country is that all of us must be involved into the promotion and respect of gender equality. “We have supported this march today because there is a high level of gender based violence and homophobia in the country. Let’s show tolerance to all people irrespective of their sexual orientation.” elfast@thenewage.co.za -ELFAS TORERAI