THE education department received the biggest chunk of the R63bn budget presented by the Western Cape finance MEC, Dr Ivan Meyer, on Tuesday. The department was allocated R22bn for 2017-18. Meyer said that the drought was undeniably a major risk for the province and for this reason R280m had been allocated towards the crisis. An additional R100m had also been earmarked for the Provincial Revenue Fund towards the drought and ensuing water crisis. The drought crisis was one of the key points highlighted in Meyer’s budget for the 2018-19 financial year delivered in the legislature. The budget was delivered against national Treasury estimates of a revenue gap of R48.2bn for 2017-18. The Western Cape education department received a big chunk of R22bn over the 2018 Medium Term Expenditure Framework and efforts would continue to focus on improving the level of language and mathematics in all schools. To help build on housing expenditure, the human settlements department will get more than R2bn while R23bn will be allotted to the health department. “The drought is undeniably a major risk for the Western Cape. For this reason R280m is allocated towards the drought while an additional R100m has been earmarked within the Provincial Revenue Fund towards the drought and ensuing water crisis.” Meyer, however, said a lot of flak on his budget from the ANC in the Western Cape. Finance spokesperson Carol Beerwinkel said the DA’s budget was too vague on the drought and poor. “The DA’s silence and vagueness on possible plans over the longer term to ensure enough future water for the Western Cape is a charge against the same DA that failed over decades to plan, manage and respond adequately to the provincial water situation. “The DA excels in a blame game but does not prove it takes the drought seriously enough with prudent planning and resources to deal with eventualities. Drought relief to municipalities are mentioned, but no tangible amount or specific government projects are known. The ANC will watch this space. “Too much emphasis is placed on the impact of the drought on agriculture as it is having a dire direct bearing on human life. “Not enough is said on what the province will do to preserve, reuse, reduce water usage and retain stormwater that now runs into the sea,” Beerwinkel said. vincentc@thenewage.co.za -VINCENT CRUYWAGEN