TWO sugarcane plantations and a house have been set alight on a farm in Eshowe, northern KwaZulu-Natal in a violent protest. This is after a violent protest erupted on Wednesday night after a man was reportedly shot dead by a farm security locally known as “Oqonda” (which operates like a vigilante group). Contrary to widespread reports that the Eshowe man whose killing has sparked community riots and saw two farms burnt was killed for fishing, his family says he was digging for worms for bait in the state-owned dam nearby. The family of Gift Siphamandla Xulu, 29, claims that his friends who were with him and they were not fishing but were on their to do so at the popular Umlalazi dam in Eshowe. On their way, they passed by a small dam of a whiteowned farm called KwaMgqobhokwane to dig for the worms. Minutes into their venture, a squad of farm security showed up. It was when his other friends ran away while the squad shot him dead. Xulu’s father, Mfanufikile Xulu, said his son’s friends only notified him the following day when they realised that his son might have died in the shooting. It was when the matter was reported to police and a hunt for his body began. “It is not true that he was fishing in the dam but he was digging for baiting worms before they could go fishing at Mlalazi Dam where even white farmers fish in their spare time,” he said. As a result of the killing of Xulu junior, the angry community of the area went on the rampage and burnt two white-owned farms called Gebhasi and KwaMgqobhokwane. The residents also blocked the R66 road connecting Eshowe and Ulundi. This prompted the Mlalazi municipality to advise motorists to avoid the area as the protest was not subduing. “The protest action has resulted to a huge inconvenience as route R66 has been closed since yesterday and no traffic can flow through Eshowe towards Nkwalini and vice versa,” municipality spokesperson, Mkhuseli Buthelezi said. Xulu senior said it was the first time that a community member was killed. He said the worst incident was when a white farmer allegedly hit a resident with his car when he was found allegedly trespassing on his farm. “I think the reason why the community is angry is that a life has been lost for the first time in the area,” he said. The security guard who allegedly pulled the trigger is behind bars while awaiting a court appearance while Buthelezi junior’s body is still in the mortuary waiting for a post mortem, his father said. The national commissioner of police, Gen John Sitole, has called upon the community of Eshowe and surrounding areas to be calm and tolerant. “The man suspected of killing Xulu has been arrested and members of the community should allow the law to take its course. I have tasked the provincial commissioner to also mobilise an investigative task team to investigate the burning of the farm house and farms and bring those responsible to book as such behaviour is criminal and unacceptable,” Sitole said. Furthermore, the police said so far members of the public order police unit, tactical response team and members of the local police stations had been mobilised to stabilise and normalise the area. “Destroying property is no solution to any problem but rather it is a crime which is punishable by law. Furthermore, it serves to neither help nor correct any situation,” Sitole said. sihlem@thenewage.co.za -SIHLE MAVUSO