The DA has claimed that the blame for the illegal trade of abalone lies at the feet of the Department of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries (DAFF). The department currently presides over the process of disposing of confiscated abalone. The sale of confiscated abalone remains hidden from public scrutiny, creating opportunities for illegal trade in the sector.
Democratic Alliance(DA) has accused the Department of Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries of creating an opportunity for illegal trade of abalone. The DA said the department has presided over an opaque process of disposing confiscated abalone from poaches. The party said this as a response to media reports that the Hawks were investigating the claims made in an affidavit by businessman Chaile Seretse that R1 million bribe was paid to former President Jacob Zuma by an abalone dealer Western Cape Deon Larry in order to keep Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Minister Senzeni Zokwana in his cabinet. Seretse also claimed that Larry also paid R300 000 to Cosatu President Sdumo Dlamini and Agriculture, Forestry, and Fisheries Deputy Director-General Siphokazi Ndudane. DA Shadow Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Pieter van Dalen said he will writing to Zokwana asking that he commit to a firm plan on how the department will open the sale of confiscated abalone to public and Parliament scrutiny. “It is clear that proceeds of the sale of confiscated abalone are subsidizing the day -to -day running of the department hence its reluctance to do anything. “In doing so, the Department is going against the established best practice which dictates that the proceeds of crime should be ring-fenced to fight that crime,” Van Dalen said. Van Dalen called on the government to bring back the green courts as one of the ways to deal with illegal poaching. “This will ensure that criminal cases are dealt with swiftly and offenders are stopped from further fueling criminality in the sector,” Van Dalen said. He said in order to stop the criminality in the abalone sector, it was vital that an open and transparent system was instituted as a matter of urgency, starting with the sale of confiscated abalone. -TNA Reporter