ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa is fighting a rearguard battle to save the ruling party’s fragile unity process as hardline supporters who backed him for the presidency push for the ousting of secretary-general Ace Magashule, North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo
and various Cabinet ministers engulfed by state capture and corruption allegations. According to various independent sources, the hardliners are hoping to use his anti-corruption drive to convince the party’s national executive committee (NEC) and branches that leaders facing state capture and graft allegations are becoming an obstacle in the bid to achieve a decisive victory in next year’s national and provincial elections. The sources said these hardliners will attempt to use today’s NEC meeting to push for the ousting of Magashule, Mahumapelo and the relevant ministers. If they fail in this move, the hardliners are expected to set the ball rolling for a national general council to be convened in July. The ANC’s NEC meets in Cape Town until Sunday. Both Magashule and Mahumapleo have been dogged by a slew of graft allegations linked to state capture. The sources said that Ramaphosa is at odds with the move to call a national general council (NGC). “He is warning his people that this move could backfire and could find himself in the firing line. Comrade Cyril is well aware that he won by a slender margin and that any move that is seen as undermining the unity mandate from the December conference could result in the branches turning against him and his people,” a source said. “The push for the NGC is a bold move by the Ramaphosa camp to gain complete control of Luthuli House. Right now there is a parallel administration, one run from the president’s
office and another from the secretary general’s office. There is a lot of suspicion and mistrust. “CR’s people believe that this is getting in the way of them taking complete control. For them this unity thing is not working,” a source said. “They are angry that Cyril is bending over backward to execute the unity mandate. “Following the reinstatement of charges against our former president (Jacob Zuma), the state capture probe and suspension of Tom Moyane (SARS commissioner), these comrades believe that they have the upper hand. “Their target is to have Ace arrested before June and get him to step aside. If he refuses, this will legitimise the lobbying of the provinces for an NGC to remove him. They already have Senzo (Mchunu) lined up to replace Ace.” Mchunu was recently appointed the head of organising and mobilisation at the ANC’s Luthuli House headquarters. Supporters of Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, who lost the presidential tussle to Ramaphosa by a narrow margin, said the move would be resisted as it went against the mandate of the
branches. “Now that we are in election mode (2019 elections), no one can disrupt that. “We support the leadership elected at the Congress in its entirety. “No right-thinking cadre of the ANC could do something so detrimental to the ANC. We will not allow that to happen.” When approached for comment regarding the convening of an NGC, various senior officials closed ranks and dismissed the speculation. ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe dismissed the rumours, saying that it if it were the case, “counter-revolutionary forces” in the ANC, would not hold sway on the matter. “There are those who thrive on divisions and dissension to drive a rift in the national officials of the ANC. They are not going to find space. “We urge everyone out there to work with us,” Mabe said. He dismissed corridor talk of a rift between Magashule and Mchunu. “There’s no conflict. We all work well together. Fikile Mbalula, Senzo Mchunu, and Dakota Legoete are all there at Luthuli House on a full-time basis. “We are doing what we have been instructed to do by the national conference of the ANC,” Mabe said. ANC KwaZulu-Natal provincial task team coordinator Sihle Zikalala said he had no knowledge of the move. “We are not aware of such a move,” he said. The acting North West provincial secretary, Susanna Dantjie, said that while she had no knowledge of talks of an NGC being convened, she closed ranks behind Magashule, arguing that the dairy farm scandal did not suffice in warranting his removal. “At this stage, the secretary-general is not guilty of anything. He is innocent until proven guilty,” she said. Acting Mpumalanga provincial chairperson Mandla Ndlovu said moves to convene an NGC to “remove” officials elected at the party’s December elective conference would be resisted. “It’s a dream, that cannot happen. We don’t wake up in the morning and remove elected officials of the ANC. We are concentrating on the elections,” he said. Limpopo provincial secretary Nocks Seabi said he had no knowledge of party members lobbying for the NGC. “No, this is for the first time. Only the NEC can convene an NGC. I don’t know of any discussions,” he said. Gauteng spokesperson Motalatale Modiba said there were no such talks being bandied about in the province. “There’s so much speculation taking place at this time, but I’m hearing about this for the first time,” Modiba said. -BONOLO SELEBANO