DA LEADER Mmusi Maimane has made clear his fear of the emerging “alliance” between the ANC and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). Speaking in Nelson Mandela Bay at the city hall yesterday as voters were registering, he said EFF leader Julius Malema would regret handing the metro back to the ANC. “Julius Malema will find that his threats to hand NMB back to the party that destroyed it will backfire on him. The people will punish him severely. The people of Nelson Mandeal Bay don’t want the ANC back here,” Maimane said. He accused Malema of only caring for his political career and that he doesn’t want to protect people’s right to own property along with the right to dignity and safety. “Ask Julius Malema how he reconciles this line in the preamble to the Constitution with his continuous threats to white people. He can’t, because he doesn’t believe in our Constitution,” Maimane said. Maimane said that the people who backed the DA to lead the metro knew what they were getting into, citing a hard stance on corruption and the improvement of people’s lives in the city. “But now the EFF has said they will hand Nelson Mandela Bay back to the corrupt ANC, not because of poor governance or corruption or anything that this government did wrong. No, their reason for turning on the DA is pure racism,” he said. The DA leader said that neither the party nor mayor of the metro, Athol Trollip, would stand by and watch as the EFF launched its bigoted attacks. He said that the parties did differ but agreed that they would never let the ANC govern the Nelson Mandela metro again. Citing last week’s by-election results in Ward 1 where the DA grew, Maimane said that the ANC had shrunk and the EFF was hardly worth mentioning. Malema said that he would punish the DA for a parliamentary motion the expropriation of land without compensation and said that he would punish Nelson Mandela Bay mayor Trollip, as he is a federal chair in the party that outrightly rejected the motion. hlonim@thenewage.co.za -HLONI MASHIGO