In commemoration of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela and her formidable legacy, a blanket project is being launched in her name. The former first lady and struggle veteran will celebrate her 82nd birthday this year. According to the blanket manufacturer, Kingsday Textiles, the blanket project is meant to carry her legacy forward in history. The company has a special relationship with Madikizela-Mandela and believes she has been significantly overlooked for the hardship and work she contributed to the struggle. “We hope by purchasing a blanket for warmth and protection we can carry her legacy forward in history. We hope it will revive the positive focus of our history heroes,” the project and events manager, Laurelle Eveleigh, said. The blankets can be found at the company’s Soweto store in Orlando where Madikizela-Mandela is also a resident. The inspiration behind the project, is warmth, comfort, the unconditional love and strength of this iconic activist and politician, who expressed her genuine love for the people. “With her environmental work with organised local clinics, campaigning actively for equal rights and promoted by the ANC as a symbol of its struggle during the hardships of the liberation struggle,” the company said. “Of all the major figures who came to global prominence during the South African liberation struggle, Madikizela-Mandela was seen as the most at home in the world of celebrity culture and for many of the years just before Nelson Mandela’s release from prison, she was his public face, bringing word of his thoughts and his state of mind,” Eveleigh said. As another way to honour the “Mother of the Nation”, a portion of the proceeds of each blanket sold will be donated to her foundation to be used for youth development. “I am honoured that this project gives me more strength and a belief that the future of South Africa is a brighter one for everyone, no matter the colour of your skin. Thank you for allowing me the opportunity to bring you everlasting warmth,” Madikizela-Mandela said in a statement. The official launch will be in Diepkloof, Soweto, on May 27. -SIPHOKAZI MNYAKA