AXED ministers from President Cyril Ramaphosa’s national executive yesterday revealed their future plans, while still pledging their loyalties to the ANC. Ramaphosa made several sweeping changes that saw the likes of Lynne Brown, David Mahlobo, Des van Rooyen, David Bongo, Joe Maswanganyi, Faith Mutambi, Nkosinathi Nhleko and Fikile Mbalula, among others, receive their marching orders. While some former Cabinet colleagues were candid about what the future holds for their political careers, others preferred to keep their cards close to their chests. Former public enterprises minister Lynne Brown, who joined the National Assembly in 2014, said while she would no longer be involved in the bustle of Parliament as she had resigned, spending time at home to be with her family was her next diary entry. “I’ve worked for almost 24 years in the public service. I’m heading towards 60, which is almost a retirement age, so I’ll be spending time with my family and doing the things that normal people do. “I’ll be doing what I need to do, to spend as much time as I can with my family. I’m also a member of the ANC and I will do what the ANC says I must do,” Brown said. Former state security minister Bongani Bongo said despite his removal from the cabinet, he remained a member of Parliament and would continue serving at the behest of the ANC “It’s the ANC that sought me out from where I was and put me where I am. I’ll be there until further notice. “It’s not about me, it’s about the ANC, the organisation that I serve. It’s the ANC that will say shift, or give me directions,” Bongo said. He was once a senior human settlements official in Mpumalanga. Bongo was embroiled in a corruption scandal where he allegedly received R300 000 in kickbacks from the government service providers while he was a legal head in the provincial department. Maswanganyi said he would continue being a member of the ANC national executive committee (NEC) and that he would pursue his PhD. “I’m a member of Parliament and I’m also a member of the ANC NEC. I’ll continue to serve the ANC at national executive committee level and the branches of the ANC,” he said. Asked if he felt aggrieved by his axing, he said: “Who am I to question the prerogative of the president (Ramaphosa)?” Maswanganyi said he would be furthering his academic studies. “I’ve got two master’s degrees and I’ll be furthering my post-graduate studies. I will be doing my PhD,” he said. Former energy minister David Mahlobo kept his cards close to his chest. “Politics is not a career, the ANC will decide on you. Allow the ANC time to make a decision about me. The organisation will make an announcement,” he said. -BONOLO SELEBANObonolos@thenewage.co.za