IF there is one competition that Mamelodi Sundowns regard highly ever since Pitso Mosimane took over as head coach some five years ago, it is the CAF Champions League. And as the Brazilians begin the hunt for a third continental trophy in three years, their research and Intel on their opponents is proving why they often get the better of their opponents. Other than studying their next opponents, Rayon Sports of Rwanda, on tape and likening them to PSL side Cape Town City in how they play, Sundowns yesterday went to the Stade Régional de Nyamirambo in Kigali to watch Rayon play a catch up league game against Espoir. By the time the Brazillians square up against Rayon at the same venue on Wednesday, they will probably know a fair deal about their opponents. At the moment, the goal is simple, striker Jeremy Brockie has said. Sundowns will be gunning for a clean sheet to bring to South Africa for the second leg, but that does not in any way mean Mosimane’s men feel like the tie is in the bag already. “Most teams in the Champions League are strong at home. From the videos we have seen, they look like a club that likes to keep the ball. We will be looking for an away goal or two to take back home as an advantage going into the second leg,” Brockie said. “We will need to keep it tight at the back and keep a clean sheet. It looks like there will be a big crowd turn out, but we will have to keep them quiet. The important thing is to play the Sundowns way. We compare them to Cape Town City. They play in pockets and spaces. We must keep our lines tight.” For the Kiwi striker, this is the first time that he will be playing in the more prestigious continental tournament. The competition will be one of the three that he will engage in for Sundowns, as they are top of the PSL and also have the Nedbank Cup to negotiate. But as far Brockie is concerned, the Champions League has always been the ultimate prize. “This is absolutely a step up from what I played, the Confederation Cup. One of the reasons I joined Sundowns was the participation in the Champions League,” Brockie said. “The competition is spoken about a lot around the club. Around the change room. The success the club had in the last few years is exciting to be a part of.” The match on Wednesday will take place at 7.30pm. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za