THE succession race for the ANC Youth League in the province is expected to earnestly get under way with branch general meetings to start this week. The process is to prepare for the provincial conference that will take place in May. The incumbent deputy secretary, Xhanti Teki, will run for chairmanship to replace the outgoing chairperson and MEC for sport, arts and culture, Bongiwe Mbinqo-Gigaba. Sources close to the developments said Teki was likely to be elected unopposed because there was no obvious contender. League secretary Neo Maneng said the regional executive committees had been in office for over three years instead of 18 months. “The PEC has developed and adopted the road map both to regional and provincial congresses. The PEC further resolved that the provincial working committee will serve as a provincial dispute committee and congress task team towards the provincial conference of the ANCYL,” he said. Maneng said the membership audit, possible reruns of the branch general meetings and the regional conferences would take place in April. “The regional as well as branch executive committees and the general membership are urged to ensure that the processes leading to the provincial and regional congresses are transparent and that the congress guidelines are adhered to at all times without fail,” he said. The league in the Frances Baard area has said it was yet to pronounce on its candidate to take over the reins. Maneng said while the league would be busy preparing for conferences, unity would take centre stage. He said divisions would not be allowed as that would weaken the league further. “The 54th conference of the ANC has placed the movement on a unity trajectory through its refusal to condone slates when it came to the elections of leadership. “The outcome of the conference is an affirmation that branches of the ANC are refusing to subscribe to politics of slates, hence the leadership collective reflection is versatile and uniting,” he said. Maneng said the league encouraged the leadership of the ANC across the board to continue to work hard towards achieving unity. “It should always be borne in mind that the attainment of unity within the ANC is not an event but rather a process,” he said. Maneng said their conferences would also focus on issues regarding young people and would seek to come up with policies that unlock the triple challenges of unemployment, poverty and inequality. tiisetsom@thenewage.co.za -TIISETSO MANOKO