THE Cabinet has appealed to South Africans to be vigilant and alert in places of worship given recent events at the Seven Angles Ministries Church in Ngcobo. Stating this in her first post-Cabinet briefing yesterday, new Communications Minister Nomvula Mokonyane gave the Cabinet’s condolences to the families of the police officers who were murdered in Ngcobo last week. Seven suspects were subsequently killed in a shoot-out with a police task team at the Seven Angels Ministry. Police have arrested six suspects. Mokonyane said children were kept at the church without any access to education. “We definitely have to deal with some of the issues that are now under investigation at that church. “The Cabinet made that expression and calls on our people to be vigilant and on the alert even in places of worship on some of the things that are happening behind the scenes,” the new communications minister said. She said in her briefing that the Cabinet was considering adding more items to the list of zero-rated foodstuffs that are exempt from value added tax after reflecting on the 1% VAT increase announced by former finance minister Malusi Gigaba in the Budget last week. While there was a reflection on the issue, no timelines were given, but it was also resolved that the Finance Department would lead a team which would look at the issues. This team would consult civil society and others before reporting back to the Cabinet. Mokonyane said the Government Communication and Information System would also be going on a nationwide information and communications drive to explain issues of VAT and address any confusion. She said this was an indication of a listening and caring government. The Cabinet had not discussed reducing its size, neither was the appeal by king Goodwill Zwelithini to Zulus to individually donate R5 to fight in court any encroachment on the Ingonyama Trust debated, nor was the issue of the South African Social Security Agency and the payments of grants deliberated on, she said. news@thenewage.co.za