THE metered taxi industry in Gauteng has been warned to clean up its act or face a crackdown in the wake of the murder of Taxify driver Siyabonga Ngcobo, 21, who was found dead in his taxi just a week after starting the job. The warning was sounded by transport MEC Ismael Vadi, who together with community safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane, yesterday visited Ngcobo’s family in Centurion. The young taxi driver’s remains were found in a torched vehicle in Arcadia in Pretoria, in an area identified as one of the hot spots together with Gautrain stations where Taxify and Uber drivers have allegedly come under attack and even been killed by metered taxi operators. “The killers of Siyabonga Ngcobo have crossed the line and their barbaric act will be met with a harsh response from the law,” Vadi said. “We know that a new group of taxi drivers made up of foreigners and locals has emerged,”the MEC said. No arrests have yet been made but there is strong speculation that he was a victim of metered taxi operators who have been conducting a reign of terror against Uber and Taxify drivers. “We have made an assessment of the situation and it had stabilised. Until earlier this year we picked up two cases. “A man was found at a dam in Pretoria. It was not clear what had happened. However this incident has shocked us all. There might be a link between the cases,” he said. He said if Ngcobo’s murder proved to be linked to the metered taxi industry, “a decision that all operations of the industry in Gauteng be shut down will be considered. This kind of violence can’t continue.” Nkosi-Malobane vowed that the “bastards” responsible for Ngcobo would be found and justice served. Vadi said the charred body of the Tshwane University of Technology student was still at the government mortuary and DNA tests were still being conducted. The family has informed us they would bury him next week in KwaZulu-Natal. There is information that the family is not happy with the way police have handled the case. “We will leave no stone unturned in this matter,” Nkosi-Malobane said. Ngcobo’s aunt Nosipho Mathenjwa thanked the MECs and everyone who supported the family during this difficult time. A source told The New Age that Ngcobo who was carrying passengers was stopped by a group of men who ordered him and the passengers to get out of the vehicle. “The passengers said they ordered him to get out, they told him to open the boot and they put him inside and they burnt the car with him inside,” the source said. kutullom@thenewage.co.za