CELEBRATING International Women’s Day calls for greater introspection, hope and unity. “Leading the struggle with nothing in your hands can bring confusion in the family. It was my responsibility.” These lyrics run deep, expressing the emotional dialogue between mother and daughter in Sarafina. The scene portrays the gender dimension in the struggle of the youth of 1976 in Soweto. Miriam Makeba plays the role of a domestic worker, duly performing her duties towards the “madam” while trying to pacify her passionate and enthusiastic daughter, young Sarafina played by Leleti Khumalo. Sarafina is upset with what she perceives as her mother’s compliance with the racist and class system of apartheid, but she also recognises that her conscience for justice, her thinking of liberation and her passion to take up the cause for freedom, comes from no one else but her mother. And so she thanks her mother, the title of the song, Thank you, thank you, mama! This scene, an engagement between two passionate and strong women, though of different generations, comes to mind as we once again “celebrate” International Women’s Day. Indeed, as women of the world, young and old, we have much to celebrate, given the hardfought battles than we have won. For example, the day’s inception, March 8, traces its roots to when women in the Soviet Union gained the right to vote. Though some question this, the day is also to said to be the one on which women, as garment workers in New York, downed tools in protest as early as 1857. Before International Women’s Day was declared in 1914, many women-led marches, protests and strikes took place and the UN only officially recognised the day in 1975. What cannot be denied is that the day has its deep roots in socialism – recognising the challenges women face, both in gender and class. In South Africa we recognise what we call the triple challenge, of particularly African women, gender, race and class. International Women’s Day, like Women’s Day in South Africa on August 8, recognises the contributions of the women’s struggle but also the challenges that women continue to face in our country and in the world. It is the one day that still has the integrity of its origins – women marching for better wages.Like Makeba, in her role in Sarafina, women constantly live with the paradox of contributing intensely in society but who, simultaneously, are also the ones suffering the most. The ones who carry the most responsibilities today, often by default more than by design, are black women – in the workplace, in the community and in the home. In South Africa, we must continue to recognise that despite all the laws ensuring equality and all the legal clauses, women remain ruled by men. As women, we have bowed down to patriarchy – and modernised it by internalising its crude characteristics. When sexist and misogynist jokes are made, we laugh along. We even turn on our own gender and correct each other, as women, when one of us does not play along with what archetypal traditionalists tell us to do, when and how. In our country, we have all but forgotten the physical, mental and emotional effects of the triple oppressive nature of capitalism. Implicitly we are active participants and promoters of this system. As with the women who founded International Women’s Day, we, as women, must rise up. The Sarafina character is one who serves as a role model to young women today – she constantly has to toil to fight the evils of patriarchy, class and racial discrimination but who, despite these daily struggles, emerges as one who empowers those around her. One can also look at young Khusela Diko, the newly appointed spokesperson in the Presidency, with pride and point to her as an example to other young black women. Not downplaying the enormity and the complexity of the struggles that young black and African women have to contend with, Khusela’s example shines as a star to others that through education, hard work and dedication, one can beat the odds. As cliché as these words may sound, they hold a deep truth and while they may not solve the deep and harrowing experiences of young black women, they do make things a bit better. As the first woman spokesperson in the Presidency in post-apartheid South Africa, young black women have reason to celebrate her appointment. While not necessarily the highest office a woman occupies in our country, Khusela’s commitment to serve will inspire other young women activists and public servants. She formerly worked diligently in the ANC’s department of information and publicity and is the epitome of what it means to earn one’s stripes. As a woman, one is all too aware of the dangers of romanticism and we do not want to fall into this trap. Khusela’s story is also a tough one. She knows what it is to beat the odds. If you are fortunate enough, she might sit you down and tell you her story. Yet her story may well be the story of many young black women in South Africa and it gives us hope to know that a black child still stands a chance in our country and on our continent. As we commemorate women like Makeba, who at 18 days old accompanied her mother to prison – and also celebrate the achievements of young women like Khusela, we know that these are but two examples of the strong women we have among our numbers. While atrocities against women continue to plague our communities, we also recognise that our freedom as women lies in our own hands. Fittingly, the UN has themed this day as Sekunjalo! – The Time is Now: Rural and urban activists transforming women’s lives. Yet the commemoration and the celebrations also remind us of a song sung by the late Jean Swanson-Jacobs, the former deputyminister of social development, when she, with her guitar and as a mother, as a woman, sang that song: Give back to our children the right to be free, Give back to our children sweet memories and dreams, Give back to our children the right to play, Stop killing our children, that’s what we say. History is filled with examples of women who have contributed much to the quest for justice and freedom. Like Rose Schneiderman, we must insist that “the worker must have bread, but she must also have roses, too”. The hardships must be remembered alongside the recognition of achievements. The women who established International Women’s Day, Miriam Makeba and Jean Swanson, knew that to address the rights of society and of our children, we as women need to find a unified voice. Jessie Duarte is deputy secretary-general of the ANC