THE tragedy at the Seven Angels Ministries was a “God-sent” example of what could go wrong if the religious sector continues to go unregulated. This is according to religion watchdog the Commission for the Religion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL), which has said the tragedy could have been avoided had Parliament acted sooner. Commission chairperson Thoko Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said when they handed their final report over last year, they expected that Parliament would have moved at the speed they were supposed to. “We are not forcing Parliament to do anything. If there had been legislation it would not have come to this,” Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said. “A legislated mechanism would have been able to declare them as non-religious and their licence would have been taken away.” She said warnings to Parliament about how dangerous the Eastern Capebased church was, went unheeded last year. The commission wants religious leaders to be licensed and regulated “like any other profession”. The Seven Angels Ministry, described as “cult-like”, is led by the Mancoba brothers who believe that they are angels. The church made headlines last week following the fatal shooting of seven suspects and the arrest of 10 others at the church. Two days earlier, there had been a deadly attack at the Ngcobo police station which left five police officers and a retired soldier dead. The attack was linked to a gang who had been hiding at the church. Seven suspects were killed at the church, including three of the Mancoba brothers. Meanwhile, the CRL Rights Commission said there were many other churches like the Seven Angels Ministries around the country. Mkhwanazi-Xaluva said they had been placed on high alert about two churches in Limpopo who operate in a similar manner as the Seven Angels. She said they would be monitoring the church to see if they were violating human rights so they could be nipped in the bud before a similar disastrous ending. The Ngcobo incident has stirred a standoff between the CRL Rights Commission and Parliament. Yesterday the commission said it would be approaching the Constitutional Court to get clarity on the Chapter 9 institution’s powers. This after the portfolio committee on the cooperative governance and traditional affairs in reaction to the commission’s report said there was disagreement over the constitutionality
of the CRL Rights Commission recommendations. lillians@thenewage.co.za