THE South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Free State yesterday said it remained committed to its coalition partnership with the ANC and on serving the residents of Metsimaholo local municipality. This comes as weekend media reports said the coalition in the municipality hung in the balance as a result of infighting between the two organisations. In an unprecedented move, the SACP independently contested the by-elections in the Metsimaholo local municipality in November last year. The party managed to win three seats and formed a coalition government with the ANC, with its 16 seats. The DA collected 11 seats, the EFF came out with eight, while the FF+, Forum 4 Service Delivery, the Metsimaholo Community Association as well as the African Independent Congress all bagged one seat each. Speaking to The New Age, SACP provincial spokesperson Phillip Kganyago said the SACP was not aware of any infighting with the ANC over governance of the municipality. “We need to mention that we remain committed to the coalition that works to serve the residents of Metsimaholo,” he said. As part of their weekly meeting, the coalition met yesterday to discuss issues that would further enable the municipality to move with speed in ensuring there was service delivery. Lindiwe Tshongwe from the SACP was elected mayor following the formation of the coalition and the ANC’s Thabo Mabasa took the position of speaker. Kganyago said the interests of the residents were the focal point for fulfilling service delivery. The SACP together with its coalition partners will implement the Integrated Development Plan. It entails consulting the residents on identifying the priorities that guide the budget as well as the programme of the municipality, from which it would insure there is service delivery. The Free State provincial government last year decided to dissolve the municipality’s former coalition which included among others the DA and EFF. The decision was in the wake of the failure by the Metsimaholo council to table a budget of the municipality for the 2017-18 financial year. refilwem@thenewage.co.za -REFILWE MAGASHULE