AS NATIONAL retailers started to remove all ready to eat processed meat products produced by Enterprise Foods and Rainbow Chickens yesterday, there were mixed views on whether the victims or their families would be able to launch a class action against the manufacturers of polony, Vienna sausages and other unprocessed cold meats identified as the source of the listeriosis outbreak which has claimed at least 180 lives since January 2017. Minister of Health Aaron Motsoaledi yesterday confirmed that Enterprise foods had been implicated in the contamination, resulting in 948 laboratory-confirmed cases of listeriosis countrywide. Motsoaledi said preliminary results showed that several ready to eat processed meat products from the Enterprise facility located in Germiston and Rainbow Chickens in Sasolburg contained Listeria monocytogenes. The National Consumer Commission has issued notices to recall all products produced in their Polokwane, Germiston and Free State factories respectively and to cease production as a result of tests linking the Listeria monocytogenes ST6 strain positively with these factories. The trace of the source came after nine children under the age of five years were sent to Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital on January 12 with febrile gastroenteritis and the paediatrician suspected food-borne disease including listeriosis. “The outbreak strain, ST6, was confirmed in at least 16 environmental samples collected from this Enterprise facility. The conclusion from this is that the source of the present outbreak can be confirmed to be the Enterprise food production facility in Polokwane,” Motsoaledi said. Lionel October, acting director-general of the Department of Trade and Industry, said: “With these three facilities there is sufficient information at our disposal to say that products coming from these plants must be recalled.” There were mixed views on whether victims of listeriosis or their families could take legal action. “There are families that suffered a huge loss, and they have a right to sue,” an advocate who did not want to be identified said. But another lawyer said that a class action case could only work if it could be proved that there was negligence on the part of the manufacturers. Shoprite said customers could return any Enterprise Foods and Rainbow Chicken processed meat products for a full refund. news@thenewage.co.za -DIKELEDI MOLOBELA, BERNARD SATHEKGE