NAGA Lipudi, the mayor of Mogale City municipality wants to restore confidence in people and assured residents that when it comes to responding to service delivery issues, there will no longer be sloppiness. Lipudi was elected mayor last year in June. “I have not finished a year as a mayor because this municipality has made history that in one term we now have a third mayor,” Lipudi said. He was elected in June last year after two DA mayors vacated the position, one retired due to illness and the other voted out. “My aim, which is informed by the party that I’m a member and a leader of, the ANC, is about us availing ourselves as servants of the people,” he said. When he was elected, his immediate programme of action was to set up meetings with the communities to understand what were their needs, fears, views and to hear their challenges and what needed to be done. “That programme is to reignite the confidence of our people in the government and also to ensure that there is hope, because when people are hopeful they contribute constructively to anything that is happening. “You know we lost a municipality in 2016 by just one seat and part of that is for me to understand what went wrong. Clearly, people indicated that they were uncomfortable (with the ANC) as much as (it) was their political home. They then disassociated themselves (from the ANC) and we apologise, we are not blaming them. “We are going to provide ethical leadership informed by integrity, honesty and humility. The issue of participating and engaging communities will be in a humane manner, not doing it for the sake of doing. It must be genuine,” Lipudi said. “One of the burning issues from communities is unemployment, which goes with the triple challenges including poverty and inequality. People also raised issues about housing because they wanted a solid future for them and their children,” he said. Lipudi says people don’t want to stay in other people’s backyards or informal settlements because these do not give them a sense of a stable future. He says people, especially blacks, say they want to be part of the mainstream of the economy, they don’t want to sell their labour, they also want to be entrepreneurs and to be given space. “This is why in the council we have 30% reserved for local business people. The 30% is for the main contractor, which will include work that needs to be done. “We have met with local business people and we told them that they should not be complacent with the 30%. We want them to reach 100% in a particular time. “This means that as they do their work, they must build a reputation, not take short cuts, not fight among themselves unnecessarily and not stop projects when they are in motion so that they grow,” he said. Lipudi says the other issue people have raised is service delivery including burst pipes, prepaid water meters, blocked drains, potholes and bad driving with some drivers turning roads into racing tracks. He says the municipality has improved response times to fix burst pipes, it was fixing potholes and it had built speed bumps. “I have established a good relationship with communities, they have access to my personal cellphone. I am on social media platforms such as WhatsApp and Facebook, where I engage a lot with people. I have ensured that this office is the office of the people. I have an open door policy, anyone can set up a meeting with me,” Lipudi said. He has a long to-do list and in a day he is able to meet four to five people (companies and individuals) but when it comes to the elderly, he goes to their homes, the mayor says. He says he met a 75-year-old woman who had been staying in a shack with her family for many years. She said she did not want to die and leave them staying in a shack. “I investigated whether she had applied, I appealed to the housing department to treat her case as a special one since she was in a wheelchair. When I met her she cried tears of sorrow. As we speak now, she has a house which is wheelchair-friendly. I took her to her house in December,” Lipudi said. He says unemployment was rife in all areas of the municipality especially for young people which is not good for the stability of the area and also for the prosperity of Mogale City. “I am busy with a programme to create a city whereby everyone who stays in it will be happy, everyone investing in it will be happy, hence I am engaging everybody. “We have a number of programmes to address unemployment. One of the issues is that many youths are not properly skilled. When I got into office, we made an arrangement to train about 200 youths in various skills including agriculture,” Lupido said. He says the processes will always be professional and transparent and there will be no corruption. “In getting the 200 youths, we had to appoint an independent body of experts who were not part of the employees in the municipality. There were no complaints. We still have to determine how they performed,” he said. Lipudi says the municipality had increased the number of people working in the expanded public works programme (EPWP), both youth and adults to 250 and the number is expected to increase. “We are also looking to not appoint companies to cut grass but rather buy equipment which EPWP will use. This means that we are going to use the community to clean. Money will go to the people. “We are also looking at internships for the youth. We are still talking to departments on how many people we will be able to make a provision for and target the youth,” Lipudi said. He said when it comes to local businesses, they are targeting youths to open cooperatives because they will concentrate on them. “We want young people to be entrepreneurs so that they create work instead of looking for jobs. The response is very positive because they know we are addressing their challenges. “We will this month open an Innovation Hub in Chamdor in one of our facilities. Two weeks ago we called the youth who were in business to engage them. There were many of them and they were very energetic, coming up with brilliant ideas on what needed to be done and were excited about the hub,” he said. He says they are also busy with an industrial park in Munsieville, which will serve as a workshop for various activities. Lipudi says the youth are excited about this, the municipality is rallying them behind good things, but that resources are needed. “With this new dawn of hope of having a new president, I think we are going to make a comeback. The day we get rid of this junk status in our country, I am very optimistic that we are going to reach areas where we can’t reach at the moment,” he said. When it comes to housing, Lipudi says the backlog is more than 15 000 and they are busy with various projects like Kagiso Ext 13, Chief Mogale and they will be allocating people there. “Now because there are two projects the queue is very long, people are going to get impatient. “Building a house takes a month because there are certain processes that must be done legally. As we build, people get impatient when it’s not them going in, they allege corruption. We want a situation where there are projects everywhere,” Lipudi said. He says they will also have a project in Munsieville Ext 9 which will start very soon and that they have Bridgevalley in Tarlton which will yield between 8 000 and 11 000 units. Lipudi says in Kagiso “we are going to have a project called Leratong Node which will yield about 10 000 units”. “We think that with these projects, we will make everyone hopeful that they are going to be accommodated and create jobs when building the houses. The bulk services will be installed, construct roads and install electricity. “We have made the people understand that these projects are for the people of Mogale City and that they can be accommodated in any project anywhere – a person from Kagiso can be given a house in Randfontein. The aim is to maximise the issue of service delivery and the impact,” Lipudi said. The provincial government has planned mega housing projects and many houses will give people hope. There is a mega project in Randfontein launched by Premier David Makhura and human settlements MEC Paul Mashatile called the Montros which will yield not less than 10000 houses, Lipudi said this is to address the backlog. He said many people are staying in backyards and informal settlements, they are also busy with a project to formalise informal settlements and install electricity in informal settlements where previously they didn’t have. He said in June they will install electricity in an informal settlement called Smokedown, He said the municipality is firm on the issue of mushrooming, they do a lot of work for informal settlements not to grow further, they have people on the ground who tell them, they then send security to remove them. “To prevent influx, we count the people and shacks, we have more than 80 informal settlements including in private areas where we then as a municipality have to install bulk services,” he said. He also said there were plans to develop the inner city to attract investment to the municipality. NTOMBI NKOSI