THE hysteria that comes when a prominent person, whether in sports or any other field, retires or dies, at times hides all the bad and glorifies the good. The same happened when Steven Pienaar took to Twitter on Wednesday night to announce his decision to call it a day on his 18-year career that saw him play in four leagues, among those being three of the best in Europe. “Today I’m announcing my retirement from football. I just want to say thanks to my mum, my family and all the clubs that I’ve played for and the supporters of course, how could I forget you guys?”Pienaar tweeted. “Thanks for the love throughout my career. Follow me on social media, there’s an announcement coming soon and you guys will be the first to know. Thanks for the love.” While he will be celebrated for his time at Ajax Cape Town, where he showed glimpses of being great, as well as his time with Borussia Dortmund, Everton and Tottenham Hotspur, Pienaar will always be looked at as someone who underperformed for Bafana Bafana where he was captain at some stage. The 35-year-old midfielder had some of the greatest chances to shine for the national team in the 2009 Fifa Confederations Cup as well as the 2010 World Cup that was hosted on home soil, but he gave lukewarm performances. It was only in Europe, especially with Ajax and Everton, where South Africans got to see the best of his football. The man, who played the last six months of his football with struggling PSL champions Bidvest Wits, started off at Ajax Cape Town before transferring to Ajax Amsterdam, where he was playing in a team that had massive stars like Zlatan Ibrahimovic, Wesley Sneijder and Rafael van der Vaart. His brilliance in Holland was always going to attract big teams across Europe. In 2006, after spending five years in Amsterdam, he left for Dortmund where he played with former Real Madrid stars Nuri Sahin and Christoph Metzelder. It was in 2008 that Everton made the swoop, with Pienaar going to star in big Merseyside derbies against Liverpool, while denying Arsenal and Manchester United victories. That saw the player, who has made 61 appearances for Bafana, scoring three goals, attracting interest in bigger English teams, with Spurs under Harry Redknapp winning the race to his signature. In that season, he featured in the Uefa Champions League team that had Emmanuel Adebayor, Kyle Walker, Luka Modric, William Gallas, Giovanni Dos Santos, Real Madrid star Gareth Bale and respected captain Ledley King. His time at Spurs did not last long, with Pienaar returning to Everton, where he continued to thrill on the left side with Leighton Baines, while the team also had Ross Barkley, Romelu Lukaku and one of Africa and the world’s finest strikers, Samuel Eto. When his time at Everton ended, he joined former Everton coach David Moyes at Sunderland, with the side getting relegated and Pienaar returning to South Africa to play for Wits. He left after just six months as it emerged that he had disagreements with coach Gavin Hunt, allegedly criticising Hunt’s training methods. The former midfielder said he will make more announcements regarding his future, with coaching moves likely. mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za