DRIVING on South Africa’s rail tracks is a ride to hell for many of the country’s train drivers. A 10 minute delay during peak hour could mean two things, drivers being forced at gunpoint or with a knife to detour from the planned route or being brutally attacked if they refuse. “Train hijacking” is becoming a significant contributor to railway mishaps in Gauteng, Western Cape and KwaZulu-Natal. An incident on Monday when a female train driver had a narrow escape from an angry group who tried to force her to detour from her route is but one case in point. Metrorail spokesperson Thabile Kunene said the driver was saved by commuters. “In the past year we’ve had about seven incidents where drivers were forced to take a detour, KwaMashu being one of them. For the safety of the drivers we had to agree to the commuters’ demands and diverted the trains. However not all commuters are violent as some often come to the rescue of the train drivers,” Kunene said. In March last year, angry commuters hijacked a passenger train heading to Stanger, forcing the driver to head to KwaMashu instead. They then forced the driver to stop halfway before they exited the train at North Coast and set several coaches alight. In Gauteng, the route between Johannesburg and Pretoria and the whole of Germiston in Ekurhuleni have been identified as high risk areas. Yesterday, the United National Transport Union (Untu) which represented the majority of train drivers told a media briefing the situation was “a ticking time bomb” which could lead to mass deaths should there be a miscommunication between the driver and control room. “Train drivers are trained on specific routes. Before they drive a new route, they undergo training. When commuters force a train driver to continue on a route unknown to him or her, the train driver drives blind. They don’t know where there are signals or a turn or a steep curve on the route. When they must drive a train like this, they can easily derail the train which could result in fatalities,” Untu general secretary Steve Harris said. He said train hijackers were usually among commuters who, because the train is late and they are desperate to get to their destination, force the driver of the first train that arrives to detour and take them to where they are going instead of waiting for another train. In the Western Cape, the Central Line route going to Khayelitsha has been described as the most dangerous, leading to drivers refusing to work on the line. In January this year, a 52-year-old train driver’s eyes were severely injured when his front window was shattered by a brick near Stellenbosch. With blood running down his face, he drove the train filled with commuters to safety to the nearest railway police station. Security personnel tasked with protecting the drivers are also victims of these attacks. Three months ago, protection official Mkhuli Nelani was shot in the chest while patrolling the railway line between Bonteheuwel and Netreg stations. “Because of these incidents our members refused to work on the dangerous central line and indicated they would work on safer lines,” Harris said. Both the union and an organisation representing train commuters blamed the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa for failing to protect the drivers and commuters from dangers caused by its own inefficiencies. President of the United Commuters Voice, Zwabesho Shange, said the rise of train hijacking was born out of frustration as a result of poor service and communication on the side of Prasa. “In their anger and frustration the driver becomes the target of the commuters who do not have the understanding that he or she is merely the operator and the trains are being controlled by the rail agency. Although we condemned the violence, Prasa needs to also take into consideration educating commuters about how trains work,” Shange said. The union proposed that the police be deployed to railway stations, but said that would be a short-term solution because Prasa needed to be responsible for its own security. Prasa yesterday admitted it was faced with the challenge of train hijackings and said the attacks on its staff would eventually leave it with no choice but to cancel services on dangerous rail corridors. “Untu is correct in raising the issue of hijackings which are classified as a crime against the citizens which requires law enforcement intervention similar to the airport or Gautrain where there is a combination of both Gautrain security and law enforcement agencies,” Prasa spokesperson Nana Zenani said. She said management was in full support of Untu and all staff during this difficult period. “Management further calls for stronger dialogue around the management of public transport crimes and indeed the reporting of such crimes as part of the national statistics in order to bring this matter to the necessary attention it deserves,” she said. -NTOMBI NKOSI, DIKELEDI MOLOBELA, SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO AND
VINCENT CRUYWAGEN|news@thenewage.co.za