PLENTY has been said about former SA Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc) CEO Tubby Reddy’s time in charge at the inquiry into the governance affairs of the sports umbrella body in Johannesburg. And today Reddy gets his chance to respond to the barrage of accusations from different quarters since the inquiry first commenced last month. The parade of witnesses, including several Sascoc board members, have accused Reddy of presiding over an organisation riddled with toxic working conditions, interference in member association dealings, attempting to influence the outcome of an inquiry and dishonesty. Others have described him as a chief executive in cahoots with a corrupt finance department. Reddy, who was fired after being found guilty – by an internal disciplinary committee – of sexual harassment of a colleague, is expected to hit back when he takes the stand today at the Ellis Park auditorium in Johannesburg. He is due to provide his version of events before the chairperson, retired judge Ralph Zulman, particularly on the sexual harassment and corruption charges. Reddy was suspended by the organisation in June last year, before being sacked in January this year – when Sascoc’s disciplinary committee found him guilty of harassing former Sascoc official Desiree Vardhan. Vardhan had outlined sordid details, claiming that Reddy had sent her salacious emails, made indecent comments and improper suggestions. She said he also victimised her by cutting down her responsibilities as head of coaching after his advances were rebuffed. Additionally, it was claimed that Reddy’s personal assistant flew first class on a business trip in 2016, at the cost of R90000 paid by Sascoc. Reddy will also have to answer to charges that he, former chief financial officer Vinesh Maharaj and president Gideon Sam had flouted their own corporate governance protocol by taking posts viewed to be in conflict with their positions at Sascoc. Former Athletics South Africa general manager Molatelo Malehopo said Sam, Reddy and Maharaj had all acted in violation of good corporate governance by retaining positions at member federations while serving at Sascoc. The inquiry was set up to air various allegations involving senior management at Sascoc and its board. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za