BIG businesses should secure partnerships with her department to implement programmes for training artisans and entrepreneurs in a range of sectors, says Higher Education and Training Minister Naledi Pandor. This comes as a report yesterday said opportunities for job seekers are expected to improve in the finance, insurance, real estate and business services sectors in the next quarter. Provincially, employers in the Western Cape report the strongest hiring intentions for the first quarter of the year, while employers in the Free State report the weakest hiring intentions. Pandor wants national employers’ associations to play a key role in modernising technical and vocational education and training (TVET) college systems for producing intermediatelevel skills. The minister made a call during a meeting with captains of industry last week to introduce the department’s major training initiative to boost youth employment. A programme announced earlier this year, the Youth Employment Services (YES), aims to place a million unemployed youths in jobs over three years. Accelerate South Africa says that YES, part of the CEO Initiative, is designed to be business-led initiative and supported by government that offers young people a chance at quality work experience and skills development through three-year internships and, in doing so, giving them the dignity and confidence many lack. “The programme is focused on black South Africans aged 18-35, and different industries will be able to absorb interns at different rates. By working with SARS and the Treasury on incentives for business, companies that are part of the programme will have an employment tax incentive rebate when employing from this pool of potential candidates”. YES chief executive Tashmia IsmailSaville said there was no easy solution but a positive step forward is to ensure strong collaboration between government, the private sector and wider civil society. According to the most recent employment statistics, half of young people aged 15-34 are unemployed. Pandor said that the department has been working on a programme to ensure SA has the skills for its national infrastructure plan, as well as for the ocean economy and the War on Leaks initiative. “It is our intention to provide the skills through the partnership we will strengthen today. We have been liaising with the TVET colleges and key industry players to formulate a well-designed industry/government skills development plan,” Pandor said. She also reported that the department has secured 780 grants commitments for Setas, meaning “there is grant for every contracted apprenticeship in the programme”. “The National Skills Fund has set aside R150m to support the colleges to ensure they are up-to-date and ready. The department will be presenting the plans to Setas in the first week of April to secure their support. We will also meet with potential partners.” Business representatives welcomed the meeting with the minister, noting that they are the primary lead players in the system and it is imperative that they work together. Nazarene Mannie from Business Leadership South Africa is keen to engage with the minister and welcomed the opportunity for the day’s meeting. “We are committed to skills development, particularly artisan and apprenticeship development. We think SA needs strong technical skills to grow our economy. We also want to combine it with entrepreneur development.” -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za