Advocate Rafik Bhana, representing businessman Atul Gupta yesterday told the Bloemfontein High Court that there was no evidence of his client benefiting from the Estina Diary Project. Bhana argued that there was no indication of transfers from Estina Dairy to his client’s bank account. Gupta challenged the freezing of the R10 million allegedly paid into his personal account, in connection with irregularities relating to the controversial dairy farm project in Vrede in the Free State by filing an application to challenge the NPA’s Asset forfeiture unit. The Unit said the money was paid from the project which was meant to benefit poor farmers in the province. Seven people appeared before the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court last month on charges of fraud and money laundering linked to the project. The court adjourned for tomorrow. Meanwhile, about 20 Gupta-owned companies approached the High Court in Pretoria to file for an urgent application to stop the Bank of Baroda from closing its operations in South Africa as the bank is the only remaining bank still doing business with the family.Judge Ntendeya Mavundla yesterday postponed the matter to March 12. He questioned if a court had authority to keep a foreign bank in the country, open and operating against its will. Counsel for the Gupta-owned companies Owen Cook argued that by shutting down its South African operations, the Bank of Baroda will be in breach of an interdict ordering it to continue doing business with the Guptas. In October last year, the same high court ordered the bank to continue providing banking services to the Guptas to secure payments of 7000 employees. “We submit that the bank took a decision in disregard. Their decision is a breach of the court order. The consequence of them leaving will have an impact on many workers,” said Cook. Cook stated that Bank of Baroda’s reasons for termination were based on its Board’s decision to close down branches in South Africa, reputational risk due to adverse media reporting, and Nedbank cutting its ties with them and giving them a notice period of three months. Azhar Bham representing the Bank of Baroda has  argued that the bank cannot be forced to stay in the country and serve them (Gupta companies). “Applicants want the bank to stay specifically to serve them, entire finger pointing exercise is pointless, and when other banks closed their accounts they did nothing,” said Bham.