JOHANNESBURG has planned a series of events to mark the inaugural Global Recycling Day, including a city-wide clean up campaign today. These events come two days before Global Recycling Day on Sunday. The day is meant to unite people across the world, highlight the need to conserve the six primary resources and celebrate the power of the “seventh resource” – recyclable goods. The Department of Environmental Affairs, the city of Johannesburg, Pikitup, the official integrated waste management service provider to Johannesburg, and the Catholic Church of Johannesburg are all joining forces to help spread the two key messages of Global Recycling Day across the city and South Africa that recycling is too important not to be a global issue and that South Africans need to think “resource not waste” when it comes to recycling and reusing the goods and materials around them. There will be two key events taking place at the St Charles Lwanga Catholic Church in Orange Farm. There will be a talk from representative of the various organisations teaming up for the campaign and a clean-up campaign organised by the church and the city. All the recyclable materials collected will be going to two cooperatives which focus on waste management, Siyaphumelela and Itsoseng. The two are run by the youth from Orange Farm. Global Recycling Day is an initiative of the Bureau of International Recycling (BIR) – the global federation of the recycling industry, representing the interests of the global industry. One of BIR’s key objectives is to promote recycling globally – showcasing to industry, policy makers and the wider community. Dr Thérèse Coffey MP is parliamentary under secretary of state for the environment in the UK and said everyone had a responsibility to think about the waste they produce and to recycle as much as they can. “In the UK we have made great progress in increasing our recycling rate, which now stands at over 44%. “You can check what you can recycle legally on recyclenow.com.” lillians@thenewage.co.za -LILLIAN SELAPISA