ANOTHER disappointing batting display from the Proteas top order on day four of the first Test against Australia at Kingsmead in Durban yesterday saw only Aiden Markram and Quinton de Kock showing some fight. That fightback though was not enough, as Australia will need just one wicket to win the first match and will be expected to wrap up the Test this morning. With Aussies having set the home side a huge target of 417 for victory in the second innings, the top order batsmen needed to settle in and bat decently to have any chance of coming close to the target or saving the Test. But that was not to be as opener Dean Elgar (nine off 20), Hashim Amla (eight off 19), AB de Villiers (0), Faf du Plessis (four) and Theunis de Bruyn (36 off 84) all lost their wickets in the first session. The day began with Australia on 402/9 and added 14 runs before losing their final wicket to set the Proteas a huge target. But as has the case even during the India series, the top order batsmen continued to flop, throwing away four wickets in the first session. Mitchell Starc, coming off a five-fer in the first innings, was unsurprisingly the one to get the first breakthrough when he had Elgar fending at a rising ball to get himself caught behind. That opened the floodgates unfortunately for Ottis Gibson’s charges. Josh Hazlewood once again had the wood over Amla, dismissing him for the sixth time in Tests, when he had him trapped LBW while playing across. And things took a dramatic turn for the worse for South Africa when AB de Villiers was run out for a duck after being sent back by Markram. Four overs later, Pat Cummins made sure that the session would end on a high for Australia when he breached Du Plessis’s defence to send the off-stump cartwheeling. The second session belonged to the Proteas as they showed some steel through Markram and De Bruyn. The duo added 87 for the fifth wicket. As the partnership began to blossom, Australia nipped it with Hazlewood getting De Bruyn to nick behind. Markram and Quinton de Kock ensured that they were available to fight on in the last session, but Markram was finally beaten with a few overs left before the new ball for 143. That opened the flood gates again as Starc then took three quick wickets as he dismissed Vernon Philander, Keshav Maharaj and Kagiso Rabada in the space of three overs to leave the Proteas on 290/9 and Australia needing one wicket to win the match. When bad light stopped play, the Proteas were on 239/9, still needing 178 to win with De Kock not out on 81. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za