WOMEN flooded Nasrec in their green and yellow scarves when the ANC gathered in Johannesburg in December 2017. But when the ANC’s final top six was announced, only one woman was included. That was when our contestation with the marginalisation of women in South Africa by the Cyril Ramaphosa-led ANC was initiated. Are women’s issues being traded for political expediency in South Africa? It is safe to say that politics as a “boys’ club” remains a feature of our political landscape – even in the Ramaphosa administration. And what can we infer from Bathabile Dlamini’s appointment as Minister of Women in the Presidency? Does she have what it takes to champion women’s issues? If her past behaviour is a predictor of future behaviour, my answer is an unwavering no – given her dismal performance from the social grants payment scandal to running Sassa like her own spaza shop. Furthermore, her role as the ANC Women’s League president is equally dismal as we saw her and the ANCWL uphold patriarchy. This leads one to question the ANCWL’s commitment to its mandate and conclude that the body is merely a proxy for men. As I reflect on the ANCWL’s utterances under Dlamini’s watch, all I see is internalised patriarchy repeatedly rearing its ugly head. She did so by shying away from difficult and uncomfortable issues as far as violence against women and gender inequality was concerned. Secondly, she failed to rally behind the many women’s organisations calling for comprehensive budgeting and a national plan for matters that speak to gender equality and violence against women. Instead, we have witnessed Dlamini support and defend men such as Mduduzi Manana and Jacob Zuma in assault and rape cases. Dlamini’s track record does not show any indication that she is attentive to or passionate about women’s issues – and these are traits that ought to be a prerequisite for a minister who will head the women’s ministry and effectively be the mouthpiece for the women of South Africa. Between January and February 2018 alone, the following incidences have made their way into the media: •The assault of a woman by an ANC branch secretary outside Luthuli House earlier this month; •The sexual assault at the Dr Yusuf Dadoo Hospital in Krugersdorp; •The rape of a schoolgirl at Tembeni Senior Primary School in East London; •Teachers demanding sex from Grade 11 pupils in exchange for promotion to Grade 12 at Flagstaff High School and the impregnation of schoolgirls by teachers; •The sex cult at Mancoba Seven Angels Ministry; •The anti-rape protests at a Methodist church in Pretoria and •The innumerable untold stories of domestic violence, intimate partner violence, rape, “corrective” rape and asssault against the female body. Unsurprisingly, we did not hear a word from the ANCWL denouncing such acts or extending a hand to the victims. Surely the plight of our women was worth a press release or two? The ANCWL’s silence on these matters is deafening and at the same time quite telling. How then can we expect Dlamini to do differently in her new post? The events of this recent political transition function as a lens through which we can reflect on the prioritisation of women’s issues, using women to gain political expediency and the uneven legacies of South Africa’s political landscape as far as women are concerned. These events also function as a lens though which we interrogate the importance of the Ministry of Women in the Presidency and whether or not it is merely a cosmetic ministry without depth or regard. As such, it is of paramount importance to reflect on this moment of euphoria in South Africa over the new executive and detail women’s issues – issues that are often relegated to the periphery or a means to an end. It is important that we recognise that the democratic gains that South Africa have achieved can easily evaporate if we leave women’s issues behind – or at the hands of individuals like Bathabile Dlamini. This is a call to our president and his Cabinet to place women’s issues on their agenda and provide a national plan and adequate budget allocation to fight patriarchy, violent masculinity and violence against women. However, we cannot dismantle patriarchy without a candid collective introspection of our society, cultures, social constructions and values as these are often mirrored in our Parliament and other spaces of political power. And mirrors do a great job at reflecting, exposing and illuminating one’s true self. When South Africa looks in the mirror, what does it see? I see a minister who is not concerned with women’s issues, but merely preoccupied with climbing the proverbial political ladder. Nomathamsanqa Masiko is advocacy officer at the Centre for the Study of Violence and Reconciliation