Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga is set to convene an urgent meeting with MECs and their heads of department, to discuss school infrastructure after receiving a report on the death of Viwe Jali. This comes after Jali, aged five, died on Tuesday last week after falling into a pit latrine while at school at Luna Primary School in Bizana in the Eastern Cape. “In view of the fact that maintenance and construction of infrastructure is constitutionally a provincial government competency, the minister is calling for an urgent meeting with provincial education departments, to determine the best way to support and work with provinces to ensure President [Cyril] Ramaphosa’s directive is addressed,” Basic Education Department spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said in a statement on Monday. Motshekga once again issued words of condolence following the young child’s death. “It has always been the view and the position of the minister that safe and decent facilities, which include sanitation, do not only provide a conducive environment for teaching and learning but are fundamental to the dignity and human rights of both learners and teachers.” The department on Monday also announced that it would begin conducting an audit of sanitation facilities at schools within a month and develop a plan which will be sent to the president and National Treasury for consideration. Jali’s death came as the department and education lobby group Equal Education battled it out in court last week over building proper schools and the delivery of basic services in schools on time. When Equal Education launched the court application, it wanted the Basic Education minister to prescribe minimum norms and standards for school infrastructure. The norms and standards were passed in November 2013. Now the organisations want some of the provisions of the norms and standards to be changed. Equal Education previously said in the past three years, the number of schools that have no
water has decreased by 1 601. However, the number of schools that the NEIMS data classifies as having an unreliable water supply has increased by 2 350. -TNA Reporter