SOUTH AFRICAN artists have welcomed the arrival of Swedish music streaming service Spotify which was launched in the country at Moyeni Conference Centre in Parktown yesterday. The artists, led by Skwatta Kamp founder and rapper Siyabonga “Slikour” Metane and pop sensation Shekhinah Donnell attended the much awaited launch of the world’s largest streaming service’s first entry in Africa. Artists such as Kwesta, Nasty C, KO and many others took time out to welcome Spotify through video messages which were beamed as part of the presentation. Developed by Spotify AB in Stockholm, Sweden, Spotify is a music, podcast and video streaming service that was officially launched on October 7, 2008. Shekhinah, who performed at the launch, said she welcomed Spotify into the country as this can only improve the chances of local artists in the global music community. “I love the fact that unlike other streaming platforms, Spotify is an independent player and I can monitor how accessible my music is in certain parts of the world and work towards touring these places,” the Rose Gold singer told The New Age. Slikour said as much as Spotify is a competitive platform, profitability will not be guaranteed in the initial stages. “It is more of an investment into the country and music industry than it is about profits. I think once the industry tips over and is ready for digital music platforms, Spotify will then start making money. South Africans still face a lot of challenges in accessing and consuming digital music on a massive scale,” Slikour said. The launch is a first for the African continent with similar launches taking place in regions such as Romania and other destinations. “With over 159 million active users, including over 71 million Spotify Premium subscribers, Spotify offers a choice between an ongoing free adsupported music service and a fully featured, ad-free subscription option,” Michael Krause of Spotify said. He said local artists would not only benefit through a global network of international music consumers, but publishing and performance royalties are part of an agreement between Spotify and the local music industry. “We have paid more than R8bn to local publishers and collecting societies to ensure that the artists benefit from being on our platform, besides the fact that we are bringing local music into contact with international music consumers.” siyabongas@thenewage.co.za