Former President Jacob Zuma’s ex-financial advisor Schabir Shaik on Monday has denied claims that he’s been subpoenaed to testify against Zuma in his recently reinstated corruption trial. Reports emerged on the weekend following the announcement by the NPA that it will prosecute the former president on 16 charges of corruption, money laundering and racketeering. Shaik was quoted in the media as having said that he will testify against Zuma. “First of all I have never said to any reporter that I have been subpoenaed, that is a misrepresentation of the facts. As far as I understand no witnesses have been subpoenaed,” said Shaik on talk radio station Power FM. BREAKING: Schabir Shaik confirms to me that he has been subpoenaed to testify against former President Jacob Zuma.
“’I’ve been subpoenaed‚ so I must testify. It is a legal requirement. I cannot refuse.” https://t.co/CDRRWxTl2i — Karyn Maughan (@karynmaughan) March 16, 2018 However, Shaik says that he has been interviewed by the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation (Hawks) like other witnesses in relation to the case. “No questions have been put forward to me, and I have not been subpoenaed.” Shaik was convicted of having a corrupt relationship with Zuma in this matter back in 2005 and sentenced to 15 years imprisonment After serving just over two years he was released on medical parole 2009. He says that in an event where the state does subpoena him to testify against Zuma, he would do so because “if the court subpoenas me I’m lawfully obliged to attend, failing which I shall be contempt of court. As to what I will say and what I won’t say, I can’t predict,” The reinstatement of the charges against Zuma relates to 783 questionable payments he is alleged to have received in connection with the arms deal. A number of which were payments made to Zuma by Shaik amounting to over R4 million. Shaik is adamant that there was no corrupt intent in those payments made to Zuma. “My affidavits are before the courts, my statements are before the courts, and I maintain my innocence,” he said. He says that the money was given to Zuma on his return from Exile to help him intergrade into society. Shaik says he also financially assisted a number of politicians whom he could not divulge their identity. -TNA Reporter