South Africa’s biggest soccer match in the sports calendar the Soweto Derby may have come and gone, but the social issue that it has come to stand for is still around. With the Buccaneers trashing Amakhosi 3-1 earlier this month The New Age caught up with the ambassadors of the #NoExcuse campaign DJ Tira and Anga NaakMusiq Makubalo. In a brief chat, the pair revealed what domestic violence and building a violent free society means to them. The #NoExcuse campaign launched on November 13 last year and is a long-term, five-year initiative by Carling Black Label in Partnership with Takuwani Riime! – A consortium of governmental and civic organisations that focus on driving positive change among South African men. Brilliant ad with a powerful message #NoExcuse pic.twitter.com/AbsdFQrt5l — Eka (@Lionezz__) March 15, 2018 We know that you are proud fans of both your respective teams, Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates. 1.What gets you talking about the derby outside of the Carling Black Label Champion Cup? Tira: Besides music we mostly talk about our families and communities, you know where we come from and how we as men can make sure that we improve the lives of women around us, how we can take care of them and not abuse them. 2.You are here to tell us more about abuse against women. DJ Tira: Correct, many of us have witnessed men who abuse women after big sporting games. We have also witnessed how those men who beat up women after matches will say that they were drunk or under the influence of alcohol. We are here to say that that is Not an excuse. There is absolutely #NoExcsue for women abuse and this is the best time to raise this issue. We have a BIG match this weekend. 3.Tira, you were part of the #NoExcuse activation in your hometown of Durban – What made you want to be a part of this movement? DJ Tira: As a role model to young men, a father to my children and a husband to my wife; I realize the importance of using my influence to do good and motivate men to make #NoExcuse for violence towards women. NaakMusiq, How is this particular movement important to you and why did you join the #NoExcuse Movement? NaakMusiq: Similarly to Tira, I also believe in the importance of using my influence as an artist to champion the fight against gender-based violence. I’ve never been directly impacted by domestic violence but I have been around colleagues who’ve experienced it, I also had acting roles where I came face to face with Domestic Violence so I joined hoping that I will make a difference through my craft. 4. Music, football, and beer all go together for a big football match. What is the significance of two-hit musicians joining forces with Carling Black Label and two of the country’s most loved teams? Yesterday I tweeted about a
group of brave women who
stood for #NoExcuse and
sang Asambe nono at the
derby.
In case you missed it at the #SowetoDerby, here’s a
video. pic.twitter.com/pk1D3kGfVW — #Mamelani7July’17 (@NaakMusiQ) March 4, 2018 DJ Tira: It is important for us as Champion men to come together and stand united against this serious issue of Gender-Based-Violence. As much as the two Soweto Giants are rivals, we can come together to fight this plight faced by women in South Africa. NaakMusiq: Every single man in South Africa who does not lay a hand on or verbally abuse a woman is winning. That for us is the real winner. Champions take action and Say NO to women abuse. Nontokozo Gxumisa