AS MUCH as Bafana Bafana have to plan for three possible opponents in the next six days, it is Angola who are at the top of their list of priorities. This is because Stuart Baxter’s team will first play against the Palancas Negras on Thursday afternoon in Zambia, before taking on either Zimbabwe or Zambia. With the many Zimbabweans and Zambians playing or having played in the PSL, Baxter feels he has an idea of how they will play and instead is choosing to put most of his focus on Angola. This is the chief reason why the Bafana coach watched SuperSport United’s CAF Confederation Cup clash against Petro Luanda. The positive for Baxter in that match is that while he also saw some of Angola’s players in action, he also had a chance to see how Beto Bianchi approaches his games. Brazilian Bianchi also doubles as the national coach of Angola, which means his tactics on Thursday will not be too different to what he employed against SuperSport. Baxter also watched another Angolan side Primeiro de Agosto, in a CAF Champions League game against Bidvest Wits and sourced a DVD of the Angola national team’s last match in order to have a better understanding on what his national team can expect. The former Kaizer Chiefs and SuperSport coach said the three matches that he has seen featuring the Angolans have given him an indication of what he can expect on Thursday. “I saw both games. But you can never be sure of what to expect. I have Angola’s last game that we have broken down. I was at SuperSport to watch their game against Petro for those same reasons and also the Wits game,” Baxter said. “You can get an idea of the style and you can get the idea of what the coach has in mind, but can you be certain? I don’t think you can. “You may end up reading too deeply into things. I want to take bigger, broad strokes and address that and then I want to work on our basics so that we can compete successfully. We don’t want to be fixated on whether that left wing will cut inside, but then ‘oh, he is not playing’.” While Baxter will be encouraged by the good form of his young attackers Percy Tau, Lebo Mothiba and Ryan Moon, with the experienced Sibusiso Vilakazi also finding his scoring boots at club level, Baxter still has disappointments to deal with. Orlando Pirates have turned down Baxter’s invite to their assistant coach Thulani Mokoena to join the Bafana camp, saying the timing is not right. Pirates are one point behind Mamelodi Sundowns on the PSL table with only a few matches to go and will want their coaches to work through the international break to find ways to snatch the title from Sundowns. Perhaps that is the reason that led to the Buccaneers, who on Saturday beat Golden Arrows 2-1 in a controversial result, said no to Baxter’s request. Meanwhile, Bafana will this morning jet off to Ndola, Zambia, where they will feature in the four nations tournament. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za