THE Political Party Funding Bill, which was passed by Parliament yesterday, was long overdue. This is according the ANC member of Parliament, Vincent Smith, who was chair of the ad-hoc committee that midwifed the process from start to the passage of the bill. The Political Party Funding Bill will now go to the National Council of Provinces for consideration. The bill, which seeks to regulate and lift the secrecy around private donations to political parties represented in Parliament and the provincial legislatures, was first mooted by the ANC. Smith said that democracy in South Africa was won through major sacrifices made especially by the previously disenfranchised. “We must guard this young democracy jealously and unapologetically,” he said. At no time during the last 24 years had political parties been obliged to be transparent about their sources of funding, he said. “Notwithstanding the fact that at the centre of our parliamentary duty as members of Parliament, is the obligation to hold others accountable, we as represented political parties are not being held accountable to explain how we use the donations received from private funders or why these donations to political parties are being made in the first instance.” Yet the overwhelming majority of the South African society insisted on total disclosure of party funding. The country’s courts agreed with this. “Today Parliament has heard this demand and we are implementing accordingly. This bill is about building a nation where the rand never reigns superior to the will of the people. The law must ensure that the narrow private interests of those with big bank balances or who have easy access to party bosses never usurps the will and interests of the general electorate or party supporters who might not be as monied.” Smith said that the bill limited the amount individuals or entities could donate to any one political party to R15m in any calendar year. “This bill is about ensuring that we, at all times, must be the masters of our own destiny. Our aspirations as a people cannot be put on hold simply because foreign powers and interest groups are able to buy or bully our policy makers and leadership at both party and government level.” By safeguarding South Africa’s hard fought sovereignty the bill outlaws all donations from foreign governments and their agencies DA MP James Selfe said in light of the recent revelations about state capture, it was difficult to oppose the disclosure of parties’ funders. He said that in 20 years of raising funds for the DA, only once did a donor want a favour. “I told him to get lost,” Selfe said. He said the bill did not deal with what he called the Gupta in the room because politicians would not be prosecuted for bribery in terms of legislation. “The bill will make it more difficult for honest parties to raise money honestly,” he said. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN