AS ALL roads lead to different destinations for the Easter holidays, the Road Traffic Management Corporation (RTMC) has put safety plans in place ahead of the weekend. The roads that are expected to be congested are the N1 to Polokwane where people will be travelling to Moria, the N3 to Durban, N4 to Mpumalanga and all roads leading to the borders. RTMC spokesperson Simon Zwane said they had deployed traffic officers together with the SAPS on all the major roads that were expected to be congested. “ We are aware that schools are closing and people will be going on holiday and we have also taken into account that it is month end and alcohol use will be high, so all roads will be monitored,” Zwane said. “We also encourage pedestrians to take responsibility for their lives and stop crossing on highways as they contribute to a large number of deaths on the road and 60% are found with alcohol in their system.” Emergency services provider Netcare 911 said it had embarked on a project to upgrade the design of its ambulances ahead of the holiday season in order to further improve the safety of its patients, other road users and its emergency services personnel. Shalen Ramduth, director of business development and support services at Netcare 911, said: “Netcare 911 will once again be mobilising its full complement of personnel and emergency vehicles to assist South Africans around the country in the unfortunate event that they have a medical emergency.” While pedestrians contribute the most to road deaths, the Bakwena N1 and N4 toll road in partnership with the department of community safety and transport management, ER24, Imperial logistics and Active Education embarked on a Pedestrian Road Safety Campaign. The campaign highlighted road safety awareness relating to pedestrians which included illegal stopping and pedestrians crossing on freeways and encouraging animal owners around Bapong in North West to keep their animals fenced to prevent them from roaming onto the freeway and end up causing accidents. Bakwena public relations manager Charmaine van Wyk said the campaign was aimed at encouraging community members to use the pedestrian bridges to cross the N4. “It is illegal for pedestrians to be on the highways,” she said. “We also want to raise awareness around the rules of the road in general and explain the purpose of the blue kilometre board markers and the 0800 Bakwena number.” Van Wyk said not only did the campaign highlight pedestrian safety, community members were given tips on keeping safe in general. dikeledim@thenewage.co.za