TUBBY Reddy, former chief executive of the SA Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc), has been accused of corruption during his tenure at the umbrella sporting body. These allegations were made by Sascoc vice-president Barry Hendricks, who testified yesterday in Johannesburg at the ministerial committee of inquiry into Sascoc governance issues. Hendricks said “a corrupt chief executive and finance department” was the reason for Sascoc’s wasteful spending. Reddy, who was fired after being found guilty of sexual harassment, is expected to take the stand on Thursday in what promises to be an explosive clash, ahead of the federation’s other bigwigs scheduled to testify over the next three days. Ali Bacher, who is part of the inquiry, asked Hendricks if the problem at the association was because the board was not effective or didn’t have control, or if the problem was with the organisation’s president. “It’s a collection of all that you mention. A corrupt chief executive, a corrupt financial department,” Hendricks said. Bacher then asked, referring to the organisation’s boss, Gideon Sam: “What about the president? “If anybody brings proof or evidence that the president has acted irregularly, I will be able to take action against the president,” Hendricks said. Asked if he would say the Sascoc president had taken his eyes off the ball, Hendricks responded: “I think the president could have done a little bit more, yes. But that applies to the whole board, we must not put the blame on one person.” Also on the stand yesterday was Sascoc deputy president Hajera Kajee, who tore into Sam, her boss, alleging that Sam was meddling in other business of the federation when he was not supposed to. Kajee told the committee, chaired by retired judge Ralph Zulman, that it had been a mistake to remove Athletics SA president Aleck Skhosana from the Sascoc board. “There was a vote taken originally, it was a majority view that Skhosana be retained and that Jerry Segwaba must step down,” Kajee said. “There was a clear vote and there was a request that we must vote again – and Debbie Alexander, whose vote was that Skhosana must stay. “So in the end, the vote was tied at 7-7 and Sam then added his vote to make it eight, sealing Skhosana’s expulsion. Sam didn’t have a casting vote as a president. “Skhosana represents ASA, he brings in the most medals for us in the country. For him, as an Olympic sport, to be on the Sascoc board was important for us.” The inquiry continues today. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za