The DA has condemned comments by EFF leader Julius Malema for speaking out against Nelson Mandela Bay (NMB) Mayor, Athol Trollip saying they are nothing more than hate speech. In a statement, the DA quoted Malema reportedly saying “[w]e are going to remove a mayor of PE […] [w]e are going for your white man in PE. We are going to cut the throat”. This comes as the EFF has vowed to ditch its coalition with the DA in Nelson Mandela Bay and vote out Trollip. DA national spokesperson Refiloe Nt’sekhe said they will report the EFF leader to the Equality Court in terms of Section 10 of the Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act. “Malema’s statements are nothing short of hate speech and go as far as an incitement to violence. While these kinds of vile and bigoted statements have come to characterise the EFF and its Leader have no place in South Africa and only undermines our constitutional democracy.” Meanwhile, the EFF has punted former Deputy Finance Minister Mcebisi Jonas as a possible mayoral candidate for Nelson Mandela Bay. EFF leader Julius Malema made the offer after being angered by the DA’s refusal in Parliament this week to back a motion calling for a constitutional change to facilitate land expropriation without compensation. He said the EFF would table a motion of no-confidence in the DA’s Nelson Mandela mayor Athol Trollip on April 6. The DA has hit back at Malema saying his threat to remove Trollip “is a clear case of the EFF cutting off its nose to spite its face”. “The fact is that the EFF is willing to sacrifice the delivery of services and hand over NMB to the same corrupt and ineffective ANC the people of Port Elizabeth voted out of power,” Nt’sekhe said. Meanwhile commenting yesterday, ANC’s provincial communications manager Gift
Ngqondi said the ANC was very clear on the offer. “We welcome it. For the past one-and-a-half years, the ANC has approached different parties, including the EFF. We will not be against anything to unseat the DA, which is a racist and arrogant party.” Ngqondi said the ANC would wait for a formal approach from the EFF “to see how it’s done”. He said while Jonas was not a councilor, there would not be a problem in getting him in as one and having him elected as the mayor. -TNA Reporter  