WOMEN working in the local film and television industry in South Africa are enduring countless incidents of sexual harassment, a Sisters Working in Film and Television (Swift) report has said. The South African women advocacy group Swift unveiled its report early this week at an event at Afda offices in Milpark, Johannesburg. Authors of the report, Monique Atouguia of the University of Cape Town and Lebohang Ntoele painted a grim picture of level of abuse and what they term is the “normalisation of rape culture” in the local showbiz industry. The report, which reveals that 66.7% of women feel uncomfortable in the workplace due to unwanted advances from their male co-workers, also contains a shocking testimony of a young woman who “blacked out” on set after she was gang raped. She was later victim-blamed by her producer and then fired for getting a rape kit done,
on the grounds of bringing her company into disrepute. “Most females have even left the industry as a result of these kinds of violations. Some women have mysteriously disappeared after incidents of sexual harassment, while others have gone unreported due to the stigma and blaming the victim for wasting the production’s time when they pursue cases of sexual abuse,” Swift chairperson
Sara Blecher told The New Age. A freelance female producer revealed to us how she has in the past experienced not only discrimination insubordination, but also being paid less than her male colleagues. “I have gone through humiliation and other acts of discrimination such as unwarranted sexual advances and being touched seductively by fellow male crew members. “It was frustrating at first, especially during my junior years, as often when you try to speak up, you are labelled an attention seeker and trouble maker,” the 34-year-old producer who asked to remain anonymous for fear of victimisation said. “In a space where I feel most safe (on set) and I love with all my heart, I got fondled by a fellow actor, he rubbed my thighs during a take,” the two time Safta Award-winning actress Brenda Ngxoli told Anele Mdoda during a recent interview on 3Talk. “The industry is so fraught that it has normalised sexual harassment and other practices. Even the women who are in leadership positions have become so used to this that they seem to condone it,” Blecher said. -SIYABONGA SITHOLE AND DIKELEDI RAMABOPA