NEW Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene has lined up talks with the three big global ratings agencies in a bid to convince them that South Africa is now on the right fiscal path. Nene was sworn into office on Tuesday and is viewed by the market as competent, business friendly and the right person for the job. He was fired by former president Jacob Zuma on December 9, 2015, and replaced by Des van Rooyen, who himself was replaced within three days. The sacking of Nene sent the rand and stocks tumbling with billions of rands moving out of the country. Sources told The New Age that Nene would not be travelling overseas for meetings with rating agencies but will engage with them through teleconferencing calls. No further details have been provided by the Treasury. All three ratings agencies, Fitch, S&P, Moody’s, reacted positively to South Africa’s 2018 Budget delivered by former minister Malusi Gigaba, who took the politically risky step of raising VAT for the first time in 25 years. The move was welcomed by the ratings agencies and markets priced in expectations that it would enable South Africa to hang on to its last investment grade rating when Moody’s reviews its grading later this month. A tough task facing Nene will be to ensure that Eskom urgently gets its house in order as the power utility is facing difficulties borrowing on international markets. As if on cue, S&P yesterday announced that it had downgraded Eskom on the back of a possible default in the next six months. In January, the Public Investment Corporation (PIC) granted Eskom a R5bn short-term bailout to enable it to keep operating for the month. This loan was criticised widely, especially by workers’ unions that expressed concern at what they termed the misuse of workers’ pension savings. S&P yesterday downgraded Eskom’s credit rating to CCC+ from B, citing liquidity concerns and insufficient government support that could trigger a default. “Eskom remains at risk of facing a distressed exchange situation or default in the next six months, despite securing R30bn in short-term funding from local and international funders so far this year,” the agency said. Speaking to the media after being sworn in on Tuesday, Nene said it was too early to say if South Africa would be downgraded by Moody’s, which rates the country a notch above junk, and is due to make another pronouncement at the end of March. “There are meetings already lined up with the ratings agencies because after the budget there is a programme to do just that,” Nene said. He said it was too early to say whether Moody’s would downgrade South Africa’s credit rating. Eskom’s current debt is R350bn and it needs to raise a further R150bn in the next three to four years. This is almost certainly impossible, say experts, even with a government guarantee. It would appear that Eskom cannot stay afloat without a gargantuan bailout. -BERNARD SATHEKGE