PRESIDENT Cyril Ramaphosa’s hand could be greatly strengthened as he moves forward with his economic cluster ministers on their plans to stabilise the economy, in the wake of the decision by the rating agency Moody’s last Friday to keep SA’s sovereign debt at investment grade. It is becoming increasingly clear that privatisation, or at least partial privatisation, is part of the plan. The head of the national Treasury Dondo Mogajane said on Saturday SA would consider partially privatising the country’s struggling state-owned companies. A series of bold changes by President Ramaphosa, including a major Cabinet reshuffle, a firming up of the economic cluster, new board members for the state-owned companies, promising to revisit the mining charter and firing managers regarded as being corrupt were seen as being positives that steered Moody’s in the direction of a reprieve for SA. The recent investor roadshow lead by Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene in New York and London was likely to have played a pivotal role. In a long-awaited announcement on Friday, Moody’s affirmed SA’s long term foreign and local currency debt ratings at Baa3 and revised the outlook to stable from negative. This ended three months of the country waiting on tenterhooks, after being placed on a 90-day review for a downgrade in November, following the Medium Term Budget Policy Statement and the breach of the fiscal ceiling. The rand has strengthened 0.97% to R11.74/$ and it would be interesting to see how it performs today. A downgrade to a “junk” rating by Moody’s would have seen SA removed from Citi’s World Government Bond Index and could have triggered up to R100bn in asset sales by foreign investors. Investors have cheered Ramaphosa’s arrival and his choice of respected ministers in key roles, including the appointment of former finance minister Pravin Gordhan as Minister of Public Enterprises. Responding to Moody’s decision, director general Mogajane, said Moody’s was happy with SA’s efforts to correct some of its own goals and happy that the country was on a path to economic recovery. “Why not?” Mogajane said when asked if it was possible parts of government-owned companies could be sold off to investors. “There has to be new ways of looking at these things. Are we talking privatisation? Are we talking equity partnership? “Let’s give an opportunity for the new ministers to unpack what it means.” Mogajane gave as theoretical examples the sale of 49% of SAA and of attracting private investors by splitting up the generation, transmission and distribution sections of Eskom, one the world’s biggest power utilities. His comments may very likely go down badly with powerful trade unions and sections of the ANC. Small businesses lobby group, the National African Federated Chamber of Commerce (Nafcoc) chief economist, Landiwe Mahlangu, said while maintaining investment grade credit rating was necessary for economic recovery, it was not really sufficient. “We should see more imaginative approaches to unlock the potential and value in our economy,” he said. Nafcoc’s president Lawrence Mavundla said radical economic transformation and the restoration of good governance in state owned enterprises were key. He listed the demise of VBS bank, the increase in VAT and slow pace of land expropriation, as being greatly disheartening. Business Unity SA CEO Tanya Cohen said Moody’s decision reflected the positive sentiment that had prevailed as a result of the election of Ramaphosa and Cabinet reshuffles that brought credible, tried and tested ministers such as Nhlanhla Nene and Pravin Gordhan into the executive. Nedbank CEO Mike Brown said Moody’s decision would contribute to a lower cost of debt for the government, and help free up resources to be spent on development rather than on interest payment. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za