HOME Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba has denied that he was a favourite of former president Jacob Zuma – or that he had a hand in any procurement at state-owned entities. In evidence to Parliament’s inquiry on Eskom yesterday, the former Public Enterprises and incumbent Home Affairs Minister admitted that the Cabinet should have been more decisive on issues such as Eskom’s decision to give former CEO Brian Molefe a pension payout of R30m. He said the Cabinet would “not allow” what had happened at Eskom to occur again. Asked by the evidence leader Ntuthuzelo Vanara on the damage caused to the economy by state capture Gigaba said some people had calculated that it could run into billions of rands. “They are absolutely correct,” he said, adding that the economic growth rate had dropped as the allegations of state capture mounted. However, since January this year, with decisive action taken at Eskom as well as SA Airways, the rand-dollar exchange rate had improved, as well as the appetite among domestic and international investors for South African stocks. The rand, he said, strengthened until it reached the psychological level of R13 to the dollar. “There is a high cost to state capture and also a high benefit in action being taken. We should be seen to be taking drastic measures in this regard. “I think in all sincerity we should have been a bit more decisive on issues,” Gigaba said. The previous Eskom board should not have allowed decide that Molefe be paid a pension, he said. “It went a long way to undermining the integrity of the government and Cabinet in particular. I think indecisiveness cost us a great deal … with all the people implicated having to move. There has been severe impact.” On his relationship with Zuma, he said he did not think he had been one of the former president’s favourite ministers, nor was he ever instructed to appoint particular individuals. “No I was not (one of his favourites). I would go to the president to consult prior to going to Cabinet. The president did not say take this one out. “I don’t necessarily think I was a favoured member of Zuma’s Cabinet. There are many people who during his Presidency were never reshuffled, and that doesn’t make them any favourites.” In addition, he said, he was not the first or even second option as the finance minister after Pravin Gordhan was dismissed. He also said former Eskom Board chairperson Zola Tsotsi had never reported an approach made to him by former SAA Board chairperson Dudu Myeni to fire certain executives. “No this was never reported to me by Tsotsi. You will remember at some point while I was minister of Public Enterprises in 2014 I had made public strong remarks about the former chairperson of SAA and when I became minister of Finance I took steps to ensure we appointed a new chairperson at SAA. I have not been influenced by Dudu Myeni.” Quizzed by DA MP Natasha Mazzone on his relationship with the Gupta family, Gigaba said he was not formally introduced but had met them at a religious festival. “I don’t now why. But people do these things, I get invited to graduation ceremonies. “The fact of the matter is people have different reasons why they do these things. I did not find it particularly peculiar,” Gigaba said on why he was invited. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN