The Portfolio Committee on Health has welcomed the forensic investigation instituted by North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo regarding Mediosa contract. The forensic investigation comes after reports that the department paid a sum of R30m upfront and followed by an extra R180m for a purchase of a mobile clinic. On Friday Health Minister Aron Motsaoaledi visited the province to go check the mobile clinic site in Setlagole, at Ratlou municipality. During his visits, he made a pronouncement that did not sit well with Premier Supra Mahumapelo. Motsoaledi said that the project was used as an ATM machine for the Gupta family, adding that whoever secured the contract should find a way of terminating it. However, Mahumapelo did not take the minister’s comments lightly, saying that the minister did not inform him of his visit as the inter-government rule stated. The premier further said had the minister informed them the (Province) would have put him abreast of the development regarding the project. “Had the minister cared to talk to us, we wouldn’t have stopped him from doing whatever he wants to do. We would have appraised him on the progress we are making on this matter.” Mahumapelo said he would no longer engage the minister on the matter, but he would rather engage President Cyril Ramaphosa. Meanwhile, the committee said the walkabout by the minister was necessary intervention. The Portfolio Committee Chairperson Lindelwa Dunjwa said it was good for the minister to be in the front line when there are reports of alleged corruption taking place within the department. “I would like to commend the Minister on the stance he has taken regarding Mediosa mobile clinics. We welcome the decision to put the head of the department on special leave whilst the investigation is ongoing. “This will ensure that as the administrator of the department he does not interfere or influence the investigation,” Dunjwa said. The committee further said it will invite both North West and the Free State health departments to appear before the committee to account for the issues in the public domain. -TNA Reporter  