THAT Mamelodi Sundowns are in an easy CAF Champions League group is not an incorrect statement when compared with other groups the Brazilians successfully negotiated in 2016 when they went all the way to winning Africa’s premier title. Also in 2017, when they made it to the last eight, losing to eventual champions Wydad Casablanca. For the 2018 season, the Brazilians find themselves in the same group as their nemesis, Wydad of Morocco, Horoya of Guinea and Port of Togo, who are the 2017 champions of the Togolese league. Port of Togo are in their debut Champions League season. They have impressed to get this far, having beaten giants Al Hilal 2-0 at home, but lost 3-1 away, edging the Sudan side on away goal rule as the sides were deadlocked at 3-3. Horoya, who are also in the group stages for the first time, beat Generation Foot of Senegal in the first round. Sundowns cannot claim to have got a tough group as they had to deal with little known Rwanda side Rayon Sports, beating them 2-0 on aggregate. Brazilians’ wing back Thapelo Morena does not see the group as that difficult, but is careful not to sound too overconfident. “People will say we think we know everything in the Champions League but we know what any club can do on match day. “But honestly, this is not the toughest group. Yes, we must still work hard, but I think it is a fair group,” Morena said. “The fact that there is Wydad in there is exciting, we want to beat them convincingly. “for us, getting out of a group stage is not an achievement anymore. “The plan is to first get to the semifinal. That is what we are looking at.” For coach Pitso Mosimane, who attended the draw, satisfaction will come from the fact that Sundowns avoided giants Al Ahly and Zamalek, with Wydad the only threatening side in their group. This situation is new to them, as the last two campaigns at the same stage of the competition had them facing former Champions League winners. Last season the group was even tougher, with Sundowns facing Esperance, AS Vita and Saint George – three clubs that have done well in the competition before. The 2016 draw was worse, with the Brazilians facing Enyimba, Zamalek and ES Setif, who are all former Champions League winners with nine titles among them. The only thing that could present an Achilles heel for Sundowns is if they underestimate Horoya and Port of Togo, as the two teams offer an element of surprise, with a hunger to impress against the big sides not a secret. But Sundowns and Wydad have experience in the competition and with their strong performances away should help, as they are relying on their home form. The big matches of the group stages will be when Sundowns face Wydad as the Brazilians are still reeling from the penalty shoot-out loss that knocked them out, with Percy Tau, Yannick Zakri and Bangaly Soumahoro missing their spot kicks. mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za