DA leader Mmusi Maimane has secured a second term as the party’s president, as revealed during the nominations announcement for the party leadership on Sunday. Maimane stood uncontested as the party candidate for the position of DA leader. DA MP and shadow communications minister Phumzile van Damme said that this was an expression of the confidence that the party has in him. “The DA has expressed full confidence in Mmusi Maimane to continue to lead the party. Proud of what you have achieved and still will achieve. 2019 here we come! DA Congress 2018,” van Damme said. She also wished all the contesting delegates well ahead of the DA Congress which is due to take place on 7 and 8 April at the Tshwane Events Centre with over 2 000 delegates expected to attend. “I am looking forward to hearing about your offers to grow the party and build a better South Africa. May the best democrats win.” Maimane has expressed gratitude and pledged to further lead a government that delivers. I have had the great privilege to serve as leader of @Our_DA. I look forward to next number of years, as we contest for our values, a vision for a SAfrica 4 all, governments that deliver, especially to the poor, & our mission to see Democratic Change #keLebogaModimo & Democrats — Mmusi Maimane (@MmusiMaimane) March 18, 2018 Other leaders who are contesting in different structures are: Federal DAWN Leader: Gaibie, Shehana Bibi Mbombo, Nomafrench Mvenya, Veliswa Deputy Federal DAWN Leader: Adams, Arlene Stanfley, Safiyia Hajeera Federal DAWN Additional Members: Botha, Lorraine Juliette Campbell-Cloete, Beatrice Aletta Susanna Molefe, Martha Obakeng Motale, Sandy Kgaogelo Nene, Salamina Nokuthozana Stanfley, Safiyia Hajeera Van Minnen, Benedicta Maria Weber, Annerie Maria Magdalena Federal Youth Leader: Machaba, Lincoln Mohoboya Uriah Mphithi, Luyolo Peterson, Katlego Clement Xabiso Nicholas, Nyati Federal Youth Chairperson: Badroodien, Zahid Ahmed Bagamela, Nomayeza Ida Nonkelela, S’Thembele Plaatjie, Yongama Maranatha Deputy Federal Youth Chairperson:  Administration: Ncube, Mlungisi Wesley Plaatjie, Yongama Maranatha Deputy Federal Youth Chairperson:  Training and Development: De Wet, Henning Petrus Cornelius Mnikati, Sandile Deputy Federal Youth Chairperson:  Media and Publicity (Uncontested): Selowa, Dikeledi Deputy Federal Youth Chairperson:  Recruitment and Campaigns (Uncontested): Mzindhle, Bruce Samukele Federal Finance Chairperson: George, Dion Travers Lees, Robert Alfred Deputy Chairperson of Federal Council: Hoosen, Mohammed Haniff Mazzone, Natasha Wendy Anita Ramulifho, Nkhumeni Walters, Thomas Charles Ravenscroft Chairperson of Federal Council (Uncontested): Selfe, James Deputy Federal Chairpersons: Mabula, Rollence Molamu Mafanedza, Ndwakhulu Greaterman Meyer, Ivan Henry Molapo, Nkele Nt’sekhe, Refiloe Thwala, Dumisani Sibusiso Van Der Walt, Desiree Waters, Michael Federal Chairperson: Lotriet, Annelie Msimanga, Solly Tshepiso Trollip, Roland Athol Price Federal Leader (Uncontested): Maimane, Mmusi Aloysias -TNA Reporter