City of Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille has accused the DA of practicing double standards on matters that relate to her. De Lille, who is facing a disciplinary hearing on Tuesday, said she was worried that the party prevented her from attending council meetings but afforded Premier Helen Zille the courtesy of attending when she was suspended from the party. She said it was unfortunate that her political opponents, who are accused of covering up corruption perpetrated by city officials, especially Commissioner of Transport Melissa Whitehead, were using the hearing to fight their battles with her. The mayor said the bulk of the charges that she is accused of originate from the investigations, which were compiled by the Executive Director in her office Craig Kesson, which are now being investigated by by law firm Bowman Gilfillan, are technical in nature and do not involve her at all. “I have not been accused of corruption in any of these matters and have given my full support for these investigations. These matters are technical in nature and fall under the jurisdiction of senior administrative leadership in the city. Why the party is pursuing me on this issue baffles the mind,” de Lille said in a statement. She said the party had disregarded the Steenhuisen report, which called on it to await the outcome of the city’s processes. De Lille said she also wished to correct some misreprentations that were made by the party’s Federal Executive Chairperson James Selfe who is said to have told the Rapport newspaper that the disciplinary hearing was scheduled for 5 January – but could not continue as de Lille challenged the Steenhuisen report in court. “I am challenging the Steenhuisen report in court but I was careful to exclude from that challenge any parts that are the subject to the disciplinary hearing.” “The fact of the matter is that it was the party that showed no interest in pursuing the charges against me until the motion of no confidence in me was defeated on 14 February.” “Within hours thereafter, its Federal Legal Commission was in contact with my legal representatives to rush ahead with the disciplinary.” De Lille said she would show that while the party in theory had structures like local caucuses, legal commissions and councils, in reality all decisions are taken by four individuals who rush to put on different hats as they go along. She said she had asked for the hearing to be led by an independent people, so as to have a fair process and would also ask for the recusal of former DA MP Sheila Camerer, as she is incompetent and not suitable to hear the case. -TNA Reporter