The New South Africa is an Old Testament of Saints and Sinners. Sins of the past lie heavily upon our present, in a promised land that may never find its salvation. The liberation of black South Africans has been the evangelism of the ANC, from its genesis. But today black South Africans remain the “children of a lesser god” in a place of white worship. In the cathedral of contestation for political and economic power in our contemporary South Africa, white settlers and sinners remain forever blessed. Across the globe, many worldly-blessed and ordained saints of salvation have used the pulpit of populist politics to soothe rather than end suffering. I am beginning to believe that the ANC scriptures, the Freedom Charter and the South African Constitution, were never intended as ideological slabs of salvation for black South Africans, but as soothing scrolls. The material conditions of black South Africans is a testimony to this. Perhaps it is naive for us to think that a true cry for the restoration of the liberty and dignity of the black child could ever come from a broad church such as the ANC, where white monopoly capital has always been and continues to be treated as a sacred congregation. I was pleased to hear President Cyril Ramaphosa speaking recently of land theft as “the original sin”. These are important words from the head of a state in which there is no altar of white atonement for apartheid and colonial atrocities. Forgiving the sins of whites has hurt black South Africans, who remain wedged in the crucifix of structural inequality and economic exclusion, while whites are fixed in an unholy blush of unrepentant privilege, seemingly unwilling to enter a confessional of ethical consciousness. The belated preach of land expropriation without compensation from the ANC, and its reverberation in the political pulpit of Parliament last week has raised the ire of whites. The inscription by ANC branches of radical economic transformation (RET) on the ANC’s policy framework, at the December conference, was an inspired ideological shift. But increasingly it appears as if RET and its key staves, of land expropriation without compensation and nationalisation, is a contested hymn sheet in the ANC, rather than a key verse in its latest anthem of unity. Perhaps we should not be surprised that while the ANC’s preach is organisational unity and radical thrust, that its truth is internal contestation and radical retreat. After all, President Ramaphosa’s victory in December was wafer-thin. The ANC’s oath to RET seems to be fading as precipitously as a new dawn would on a horizon of hopelessness. The president and other ANC leaders have been soothing white fears on the expropriation of land, without compensation motion in Parliament last week. The ANC’s retreat on the motion of full public ownership of the South African Reserve Bank in the National Assembly earlier this week, appears to be a defiance of its own disciples (ANC branches) and decisions (ANC conference). In the crying game of privilege, white tears matter much and white interests remain holy-grail. The motion to review Section 25 of the Constitution, certainly a step in the right direction, is unlikely to be the giant stride many are presently rejoicing. Public discourse, legal challenges, side-stepping and back-stepping by certain ANC leaders are set to dilute, disrupt and delay land return. The right-wing political party, Freedom Front Plus has requested a meeting with the president on the matter of land expropriation. The party is confident that President Ramphosa will listen to them, even be swayed. Already, top ANC leaders are speaking about unused land being the main extract of the land expropriation and how land return must be a responsible and unthreatening process. In the words of former deputy finance minister Mcebisi Jonas “land expropriation without compensation must not hurt the economy”. We are behaving as if the economy is serving rather than enslaving the black majority. This detour from some key ANC leaders should not surprise us, though, because the very issue of land expropriation without compensation was a contested policy decision in December, and was not the popular orate or policy preference of those who are in power today. The false restraining chord of forced accord in the ANC since December finally found some release this week in the frontline dismay showed by the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) and Umkhonto we Sizwe’s Military Veterans Association (MKMVA), on the withdrawal of the Bank motion. Both ANCYL and the MKMVA expressed disappointment that the withdrawal of the Bank motion was a wholesale disregard of the decision made at the ANC national conference. Both argue that the withdrawal suggests that “some of the leading figures in the ANC remain captured and abuse their positions of power to advance the interests of white monopoly capital”. It is difficult to fathom why the ANC did not lead or fast-track the path to land return in Parliament, after its December resolution. Surely the governing party could have ensured a more efficient passage of a Bill on Land Expropriation, through Cabinet, into Law? It appears as if the walk to economic liberation in South Africa will be a long one. Social and economic justice for black South Africans will continue to be an abandoned waif, in an economic holocaust of hope undrawn. In an untested economic heaven of milk and honey. “All these died in faith, without receiving the promises, but having seen them from a distance and having confessed that they were strangers and exiles on the earth” (Hebrews 11:13-16). In an age of white illegitimacy and legitimate black rage. In the end, time will cast judgement on whether President Ramaphosa is a man of the word. Or a man of his word. Or a man of someone else’s word. In the end, history will tell whether the story of ANC is that of the blesser party of whites or the liberator party of blacks. Kim Heller is a writer and commentator