FOREIGN capital flows may flood into South Africa as potential investors rush to grab opportunities that exist if Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene’s London investment road show has yielded good results if it manage to woo a sizeable number of investors. Nene visits London together with labour and business as part of a threeleg international road show to woo investors and to meet with ratings agencies. The outcome is likely to see money coming into South Africa in the months ahead. The significant changes in the Cabinet reshuffle made by President Cyril Ramaphosa, especially in key economic cluster portfolios such as the ministers of Public Enterprises, Energy and Finance impressed investors abroad as it has brought back some certainty. Nene also met with investors and bondholders in New York and Boston, and they apparently all gave Team-SA the thumbs up. The central objective of the road show trip was to continue giving investors input, to keep them updated regarding the medium term budget policy statement (MTBPS) and also about the budget presented in February. Nene is accompanied by Deputy Finance Minister Mondli Gungubele, Treasury director-general Dondo Mogajane, Eskom chairperson Jabu Mabuza, Business Leadership South Africa CEO Bonang Mohale and Dennis George, general secretary of the Federation of Unions of South Africa. The team arrived back home on Saturday. “This was a non funding mission, but left no stone unturned as investors are happy. We were there to explain the entire budget to investors. People we spoke to include three ratings agencies and 80 different investors and they were all impressed with what we presented to them,” Dennis George, general secretary of Fedusa said. George said the majority of investors they met bought into local bonds and that was encouraging. “Investors are interested to see South Africa addressing poverty, inequality and unemployment. “Overall, they are happy and happy with the fact that Nene has been reappointed Finance Minister. Recently, President Cyril Ramaphosa told them that Nene did nothing wrong and he is a finance minister,” he said. Further, George said investors were also happy to see that labour and business were back as social partners, and stronger than before. “They ask us how we are going to get growth going forward and the answer was simple, we are going to give a chance to 1 million young South Africans to work for one year to gain relevant experience and skills,” he said. According to George, all investors promised to be part of the Investor Conference announced by Ramaphosa which expected in July and that is where they will start to open their purses. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za