SOUTH Africa added salt to the wounds of Australia after the International Cricket Council’s slap on the wrist of Australia captain Steve Smith’s ball tampering admission. Outraged cricket fans were yesterday left bemused by the ICC’s response to the Australian cricket team’s captain admitting culpability that his team conspired to cheat. South Africa handily won the third Test at Newlands yesterday by 322 runs, bowling them out for 107. The ICC announced its decision to hand Smith a one-match ban and a 100% match fee fine, while teammate Cameron Bancroft, who was the player to actually tamper with the ball on Saturday, was given three demerit points and fined 75% of his match fee after accepting the Level 2 charge. Smith and his vice-captain David Warner were also asked to step down, while Tim Paine took the armband yesterday on day four. “We saw this game as such an important game, an opportunity. We’ve obviously seen the ball reversing quite a lot. Our ball didn’t look like it was going to go. It’s a mistake. Deeply regrettable. Won’t happen again under my leadership, I promise you,” Smith said in a media briefing after the game. Bancroft also admitted, after television footage showed him take what he said was yellow tape out of his trouser pocket and rubbing the ball. Earlier yesterday Cricket South Africa had asked the ICC for “strong, decisive action” against the Australians. However, when they did speak on the matter, the overwhelming response was that Smith got away with a mere slap on the wrist. Cricket fans voiced their outrage on Twitter with some calling the cricket governing body “toothless” and accusing the ICC of favouritism. “Smith gets away with just 1 Test suspension & 100% match fee fine from #ICC for #BallTampering,” a user who goes by Minhaz Merchant wrote. “In #BallTampering episode 2 facts: 1) Aussies didn’t confess voluntarily. They were caught on camera & were forced to. 2) This isn’t just a level 2 offence of ball tampering with 3 demerit points but a premeditated conspiracy to cheat. Smith/Warner/ Lehman must get a lengthy ban,” Merchant continued. Some questioned the classification of wrongdoing and the corresponding sanctions. “So ball tampering to cheat and win is far far less serious than spot fixing to deliver a couple of no-balls. Ok #ICC #SandpaperGate #SteveSmith,” TS Sudhir said. Others brought up the ICC’s “harsh” punishment of players from certain other Test countries. “Just one Test ban for #SteveSmith. I suspect ICC would not have been so lenient if it was the #Pakistan captain involved. This soft punishment hardly sends across a tough message. It is as if #ICC has had a brain fade moment #balltampering,” one user wrote. “Rabada’s ban was so much worse for a far lesser action, Steve Smith got off lightly! Favouritism towards the mighty Australians??? #SAvAUS #ICC #SSCricket #ProteaFire,” Mike Hemme wrote. “Must be an early #aprilfoolsday joke, #Smith gets a 1match ban & #Bancroft 75% match fee fine. Lenient punishments like this will encourage cheating rather than discourage it. The power of Sponsorship & #Australia have taken precedent over blatant cheating with the #ICC blessing.” -NEVILLE KHOZA