THERE has been a huge outcry from the public and former cricketers in response to the manner in which match referees have handled recent offences in matches. After Proteas fast bowler Kagiso Rabada was suspended by match referee Jeff Crowe after his shoulder made contact with Australia captain Steve Smith during the second Test at St George’s Park in Port Elizabeth, many have questioned the penalty imposed on the South African compared to how similar incidents have been handled. The critics have deemed the International Cricket Council’s (ICC) general handling of these spats inconsistent. Rabada has since lodged an appeal against his two-match ban which is expected to be heard by New Zealand counsel Michael Herron today. Just recently, there have been similar or more severe offences which have not received a ban and the inconsistency has put the ICC rules under scrutiny. On Friday, in a T20I match between Sri Lanka and Bangladesh, Shakib Al Hasan’s behaviour in the closing stages of the match raised some eyebrows. This after the Bangladesh team argued with on-field umpire over a no-ball that was not given. Batsman Mahmudullah charged the umpire, demanding a no-ball towards the square leg umpire. But the match referee Chris Broad somehow let Shakib get away with this, which would have been deemed a Level 1 offence and did not see anything wrong with it. This is despite Article 2.2.6 of the ICC Code of Conduct dealing with “charging or advancing towards the umpire in an aggressive manner while making an appeal”. With regards to Rabada, those on his side believe the earlier furore between David Warner and Quinton de Kock deserved harsher punishment. Warner avoided any suspension following a row with De Kock in the first Test in Durban. Having pleaded guilty to a Level 1 offence over a separate offence, also involving Warner in Port Elizabeth, Rabada would need the charge against him for the contact with Smith throw out on appeal, or the demerit points reduced to one, to avoid suspension. Rabada’s suspension for two Test matches has irked many more personalities beyond South African borders and may require the ICC to take a closer look at its rules and match referees. Former international captains such as England’s Michael Vaughan, former Australia captain Mark Taylor and Graeme Smith voiced their dissatisfaction with Rabada’s sidelining. It remains to be seen how the ICC’s minders respond to these recent events going forward. But the matches between Australia and South Africa and Friday’s on-field conflict in the Nidahas Trophy served to show the complexities involved. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za