THE embattled power utility, Eskom, said yesterday that plans were afoot to appoint a permanent CEO and chief financial officer (CFO) by the end of next month and to begin the process of picking up the pieces to form a concrete institution. But some industry analysts blamed the new board, chaired by businessman Jabu Mabuza, for repeating the same mistakes as perpetuated by predecessors, of concentrating on short-term measures. Furthermore, in a bid to reform the ailing utility, it is believed the company may include reducing the number of jobs to reduce costs. Addressing a media briefing in Pretoria yesterday, Mabuza said Eskom would be appointing a new CEO soon and, hopefully, shortly thereafter, a (CFO. Phakamani Hadebe is acting CEO while Calib Cassim is acting CFO. It’s not clear if the two are available to take up the positions permanently. “It is a good thing for Eskom to be looking to make permanent appointments to critical positions but one must be worried about the manner in which the new board has been operating because it’s no different from how things were done previously. “What the new board is doing at the moment is plastering over the cracks. That does not solve the problem,” Chris Yelland, an energy expert, said. Yelland said to go on the market and borrow for a short term, was like robbing Peter to pay Paul. “In February, the Public Investment Corporation granted Eskom a bailout of R5bn, which was paid at the beginning of this month. Last week, Eskom secured a R20bn short-term loan from local and international banks. “This is a clear indication that Eskom is in a dire financial situation and continues to rob Peter to pay Paul. They must concentrate on a long-term strategy,” Yelland said. He said short-term measures were no solution and that Eskom could not afford to keep doing the same thing all the time. “The solution to the problem is not borrowing the money but to restructure Eskom by putting the right management in place. Put in place a credible CEO and CFO if you want to fix what’s broken. But pumping in money won’t solve the problem,” he said. Yelland also said the utility must consider reducing its staff to cut costs as its staff complement is way above that of its competitors on the continent. “Eskom has 47 000 employees in electricity operations alone – excluding other divisions – and that is way too much. “The World Bank says in a report that Eskom employees must be reduced to 15000,” he said. However, Mike Levington, a black industrialist, said the new board and Public Enterprise Minister Pravin Gordhan must be given enough time to deal with the problem. “Eskom must focus on clear, shortand medium-term goals. It must change the structure to keep the company going in the right direction. “It is a very challenging process for Eskom and the government as the major shareholder, to pursue. All parties must be on the same page to get it right and deal with the utility’s problems,” he said. He said the key issue was to understand and identify the systemic problems within Eskom and to get the structure of electricity supply on the right track. “The new board has not been in place for long and is trying to get to grips with the situation. Still, we don’t have a lot of time to solve the problems,” he said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za