WINNING the CAF Champions League in 2016 means Mamelodi Sundowns are no longer a closed book to any team on the continent. What is making things worse for Pitso Mosimane’s Sundowns is that their next opponents for tonight Rayon Sports know more about them than most teams do. This is because the team that Sundowns will battle tonight at 6pm is now coached by former Black Leopards interim coach Ivan Minnaert, who joined less than two weeks ago after former coach Olivier Karekezi skipped the country for Sweden when investigated for match fixing allegations. Minnaert, who also has a bizarre history in South Africa having opened a case of attempted murder against Leopards team manager Elijah Mulaudzi was recommended to Rayon by his friend and current Free State Stars coach Luc Eymael, who also used to coach Rayon in the past. That means chances of players like Khama Billiat, Percy Tau, Themba Zwane and Sibusiso Vilakazi being fairly known now by their next opponents are big. Even the fact that one of Rayon’s players Hussein Shaban is nicknamed Tshabalala after Kaizer Chiefs star Simphiwe Tshabalala makes it clear that Rayon are not in the dark about the Brazilians. Speaking about Rayon, Eymael said they are one of the best loved teams in Rwanda and the fact that they won the Rwanda League eight times and the Rwanda Cup nine times, make them a competitive outfit. “Rayon are one of the biggest clubs in Rwanda and the best supported. They have a big history. Sundowns should expect as many as 40000 fans in the stadium. That is how popular the team is. The people love football. The facilities are not at the level we have in South Africa but the pitch will be good. Of course, our level is higher than theirs and we have more talented players,” Eymael said. “They work hard there. But Sundowns are superior. For me they are the best team in Africa. What makes it better for Rayon is that they are coached by Ivan Minnaert who used to coach Black Leopards. I recommended him there when their coach left. He knows Sundowns and he will make things difficult, but Pitso is the best coach. He will manage through that,” the Free State Stars coach said. But Sundowns, who are likely to give Champions League debuts to players such as Gaston Sirino, Jeremy Brockie and Aubrey Ngoma do not look fazed. The Brazilians were at the Amahoro Stadium in Kigali on Sunday afternoon to watch Rayon thrash Espoir 3-0 in a league match. While the Brazilians were knocked out in the Champions League quarter-finals by eventual champions Wydad Casablanca last season, Rayon faltered in the third of the CAF Confederation Cup, going down 2-0 on aggregate to Nigerian side Rivers United. Rayon, who are the reigning Rwanda champions, will play the match without experienced centreback Thierry Manzi, who is out due to a suspension. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za