ORLANDO Pirates coach and reigning PSL coach of the month Milutin Sredojevic’s bag of tricks was the undoing of his Kaizer Chiefs counterpart Steve Komphela in the Buccaneers’ 3-1 victory in the Soweto derby at FNB Stadium on Saturday. Sredojevic’s half-time pep talk was the difference between the two sides in the final 45 minutes of the game, following Chiefs’ domination in the first half, which was fatally not backed up by goals. The dual contribution of Joseph Molangoane and Ramahlwe Mphahlele, who added numbers to overload the Pirates midfield, was the key to Amakhosi bossing the game. Sredojevic’s intervention undid it all though and Komphela had no answer as the Serb introduced in-form Luvuyo Memela, who promptly scored with his second touch of the match and then completed his brace 15 minutes from time. The introduction of Memela injected a new lease of life for the hosts, while Thembinkosi Lorch dropped back into midfield to do the heavy lifting. Lorch’s presence in the middle of the park rendered Molangoane and Mphahlele ineffective and allowed the attackers space. “We believe that tactically it was a clash of a 3-4-1-2 formation for both teams and in the second half we introduced two number 10s with Memela and Lorch behind Justine Shonga,” Sredojevic said. “Then we had both players – Memela and Lorch – periodically drop to midfield and deal with Molangoane coming in on the inside. We had four versus four there and this is how we brought the game into our control. We punished them when we spotted them risking Mphahlele overlapping too much. Our last two goals were scored from there.” Komphela responded by bringing in Gustavo Paez, Bernard Parker and Hendrick Ekstein but the substitutes did not yield the desired result. The win saw Pirates cut the gap between them and the Absa Premiership log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns to four points with seven games remaining. Still, Sredojevic reiterated the message prior to this game, insisting that they still were not focused on challenging for the league title. “We will deny it (winning the league) even stronger than we did before.We are not thinking about the league, we are thinking about the Nedbank Cup match against Cape Town City next. “We are giving the players some time to refresh their minds and our total focus is now on the cup competition.” Following the defeat to Pirates, Chiefs have dropped to fifth and are now eight points behind Sundowns in their title chase. Meanwhile, Polokwane City yesterday fought back to hold Lamontville Golden Arrows to a 2-2 draw at the Old Peter Mokaba Stadium. The draw sees Rise and Shine move up to 14th place on the standings, with Abafana Bes’thende also climbing up to ninth spot. In the afternoon’s other match, Bloemfontein Celtic heaped more misery on Ajax Cape Town whom they defeated through a soltitary strike by Ronald Pfumbidzai. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za