THE producers of Xhosa film Inxeba: The Wound are not accepting the controversial and harsh reclassification ruling by the Film and Publication Board’s (FPB) appeals tribunal which saw the film banned from screening at mainstream cinemas. The filmmakers, through their lawyers Webber Wentzel, served notice of a lawsuit to the FPB appeals tribunal following its rating of the film from 16LS to X18, which renders its content tantamount to hardcore pornography. FPB has issued a responding affidavit and has also said the FPB and its council are separate entities from the appeals tribunal. They do not agree with the censorship of the content and stated as much in their responding affidavit. “It is important that the position of the board should be made clear in public. The FPB does not support the award. The FPB does not agree with the X-rating and has never rated the film X but 16LS instead. The FPB has made it clear that the X-rating was imposed by the tribunal and that it was not a rating requested by the complainants.” The Congress of Traditional Leaders (Contralesa) Gauteng, The Man and Boy Foundation and the appeals tribunal have filed notice that they would oppose the interdict. “Given the current rating of the film, it is illegal and a criminal offence punishable by a five-year prison sentence to view it on any platform, either free or paid for, legitimate or pirated. We are working to find legal means to make it available to fans,” MD of Indigenous Film Distribution Helen Kuun said. Early this week, the film’s director John Trengove denied reports and allegations levelled against him and his team that the film had also portrayed or suggested that king Shaka Zulu was gay. “The film does not claim that King Shaka was gay as you probably know. Please don’t print that as any sensationalism on your part could increase threats to our cast,” Trengove told The New Age. This response comes after news reports at the weekend suggesting that king Goodwill Zwelithini was angry over the film’s portrayal of the Zulu king. “The issue of saying king Shaka was gay angered the royal family. We don’t know where they got that as they don’t know his history. This is pure fabrication that should stop,” the king said at the annual Marula Festival at his eMachobeni royal palace in Ngwavuma in northern KwaZulu-Natal. siyabongas@thenewage.co.za