The basic human right to freedom of expression is believed to be increasingly under threat as with the recent banning of the film, Inxeba: The Wound. Despite winning several international film awards, the film ruffled a few feathers as cultural advocacy group Contralesa Gauteng and The Man and Boy Foundation deemed it distasteful and insensitive towards sacred Xhosa cultures and values of the initiation. Following a series of marches and violent threats which were condemned by the South African Human Rights Commission (SAHRC), the film was banned from local cinemas – and later unbanned – after it was given a rating of X18 by the Film and Publication Board, classifying the film in the same category as hardcore pornography. While some rejoiced at the decision, the LGBTQ+ community alongside a handful of artists questioned the ruling, labelling it as an infringement of the basic human right to freedom of expression and association not only for the gay community but also for arts and culture industry. Describing the banning of Inxeba as highly problematic and unjust, cultural expert Sydelle Willow Smith, who holds an MSc in African studies from Oxford University said: “Cinema is an art form, an expression and commentary on society and all its layers. As was highlighted by many of the LGBTQ+ people who attended our two free screenings of the film in Langa, while it was still classified as 16LS, the film reflects their story. Silencing the film, silences them.” However, renowned local filmmaker and actor Tony Kgoroge said the country had made incredible strides in upholding basic human rights as enshrined in the constitution but there is a thin line between enjoying and abusing it. He further slammed Inxeba’s producers for not consulting cultural experts for their input before making the film. “There are things that as a filmmaker, you cannot just wake up one day and decide to do. With regards to Inxeba it touched on culture, now that is another level of respect and spiritual journey you need to have as a creative towards culture. “We need to tread carefully and consider who they might offend. That is why there are institutions such as the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs who will direct us when we are stepping out of line,” he said. nontokozog@thenewage.co.za