Hot on the heels of the latest move by smartphone giants entering the auto industry, car giant Land Rover has recently unveiled its new Land Rover Explore mobile phone much to the surprise of tech observers. A move aimed at helping the global heavy duty giant pursue new business initiatives, the company said the inspiration behind this innovative move was the result of “growing customer dissatisfaction with the fragility of their mobile phone and poor battery life in particular”. Designed with cues from the unbeatably capable Land Rover Discovery with power enough for two full days of typical use, it is developed in a collaborative effort by the luxury SUV global leaders and Bullitt Group, the same British phone makers behind the Caterpillar brand of smartphones, Cat S60. Perhaps its most impressive capability would have to be the powerful 4,000mAh battery, which reportedly gives users a full days hiking, biking or skiing and GPS navigation mapping activated on the five-inch HD display. Battery life can be doubled by using an Adventure Pack that also boosts the reliability and accuracy of the GPS. Coming with a factory-fitted screen protector, the Android-powered device can survive underwater and cope with extreme temperatures, humidity, thermal shock and vibration exposure. It is also fully compatible with all Land Rover in-car apps. “This the smartphone we’d all like to own – a perfect combination of design and functionality that embodies the Land Rover DNA and enables customers to be outdoors for longer, with the confidence to go further,” said Jaguar Land Rover director of branded goods Joe Sinclair. Equipped with a touchscreen that can be controlled with gloves on or with wet fingers, New Land Rover Explore is about navigating the great outdoors. It comes with a 16MP rear camera, 8MP for front, the phone will be available for pre-order in South Africa from next month with a recommended retail price of €649 or £599. As tech companies race to enter uncharted territories to attract new customers, early this year in Las Vegas Smasung Eletronics unveiled an automotive camera system featuring collision warning, lane-departure warning, and adaptive cruise control, developed in collaboration with Harman. This follows last September announcement by the South Korean tech giant that it has set up a strategic business unit with a $300 million fund to invest in automotive start-ups and technology. tankisok@thenewage.co.za