The month of March is observed by our nation as Human Rights Month, recognising
the struggle for freedom in South Africa and in the rest of Africa and the developing world. We need to mark that moment in our history, which became a watershed for the liberation struggle, the shooting of peaceful marchers in Sharpeville in 1960 and later in Uitenhage in 1985, our task even today is to show that the challenging journey to freedom in South Africa was based on the assertion of human rights in a place where, as a result of colonialism, segregation and apartheid, black people were stripped of their rights in the land of their birth. In 1948 the Nationalist Party came to power in South Africa and began to formalise segregation in a succession of laws that gave the apartheid government control over the movement of black people throughout the country. In the same year, the world saw the adoption of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights
by the UN General Assembly at the Palais de Chaillot, Paris. The apartheid government always moved in the contrary direction to the world community. The Sharpeville massacre lay apartheid brutality naked before the eyes of the world. Before the massacre, few international observers were aware of the day-to-day brutality
of apartheid, given the cautiously managed image of lawfulness and order conveyed by the apartheid government and the willingness of foreign governments and corporations to ignore evidence that might disturb their political and trading relationships with South Africa. Declaring this year the Year of President NR Mandela acknowledges his contribution and also points us in the direction of continuing to build unity in action to advance human rights. We shall remain inspired by the example set by him and his generation. Our Constitution today compels us to build a humane order, characterised by peace, friendship and a better life for all. It urges us to “establish a society based on democratic
values, social justice and fundamental human rights”, Let us continue to work together, to carry out our work through unity in action and deepen a human rights culture in all aspects of South African life. South Africa’s Human Rights Day is March 21. This date also marks the UN International
Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. As part of the commemoration of the centenary of the birth of Mandela and Ma Nontsikelelo
Sisulu and the 40th anniversary of the untimely passing of that eminent scholar and leader of our people, Prof Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe, the Department of Arts and Culture has released the recordings of the Rivonia Trial to the public. Some members of the public will recall that the courts in South Africa from the late ’40s until the late ’70s used a particular technology called the dictabelt to record the proceedings. This method of recording was discontinued in the late 1970s. A wealth of history is stored in these machines. We have learned through our Rivonia Trial dictabelt project just how vulnerable our audiovisual records are due to obsolescence, lack of skills and resources, not just in South Africa but worldwide. Researchers from the National Archives and Records Service of South Africa (Narssa)
have searched hard for solutions in unlocking the records to this landmark trial and other
related trials, until they found the perfect partners in the National Audiovisual Institute of France. My gratitude for their assistance and that of the International Federation of Television Archives who contributed selflessly through their Save Your Archives programme to make
this project a reality will remain forever. The restored digital recordings have been available online to the public since the end of
October last year. The digitised sound recordings (more than 230 hours), as well as a synopsis of the sound recordings, were captured on the National Automated Archival Information Retrieval System database and published on the new Narssa website, (www.nationalarchives.gov.za). The public and the research community can access the information on these trials from the
website noted above. The government since 1994 has been working hard in promoting the culture of human rights embedded in the country’s Constitution. Since the advent of the new democratic dispensation, new houses are being built for the poor, the fight against HIV and Aids has
intensified, new schools are being built and segregated learning institutions are no longer
in existence. However, high unemployment remains a serious challenge, not only in terms of economic
development but also raising security issues. Towards the end of last year and at the beginning of this year, the country witnessed another spike in reported racist acts and other incidents of racial discrimination, perpetrated, inter alia, by both private individuals and large international corporates. These incidents have been covered on the front pages of newspapers and in news headlines. Its damaging expression is a reminder that racism and all other forms of related
intolerance are issues that we cannot afford to wish away. These remain a challenge to our democracy and the national project on nation-building and
social cohesion. As a society, we owe it to ourselves to engage with these issues with truthfulness and openness. Inequalities created and institutionalised by apartheid are still prevalent almost 24 years into the new South Africa. The preamble of the Constitution sets as its primary goals to heal the divisions of the past
and establish a society based on democratic values, social justice and fundamental human
rights, to lay the foundation for a democratic and open society in which government is based on the will of the people and every citizen is equally protected by law, to improve the quality of life of all citizens and free the potential of each person. It is the task of all of us to work towards this noble idea articulated by the supreme law of
the land. Nathi Mthethwa is Minister of Arts and Culture, and a member of the national executive committee and national working committee of the ANC