THE desire to return to the CAF Champions League or Confederation Cup space is what has been motivating Orlando Pirates in the league and the Nedbank Cup competition. Pirates will earn a ticket to participate in the continental competitions should they win the Absa Premiership or by finishing second, a position they are now is possession of. They can also get the opportunity to play in the Confederation Cup should they win the Nedbank Cup this season. But coach Milutin Sredojevic said they are building a team which is not going to add numbers on the continent but to fight for the trophy. “We are already working on criteria and standards which will make us not just reaching the group stages, but going there and being contenders for the trophy. For that to happen we need to go from the big picture thinking about Africa only,” Sredojevic said. For Pirates to have a chance of playing in the Confederation Cup, they will need to go all the way and win the knockout competition. Standing in their way now to the quarterfinal berth are Cape Town City, a team they meet tomorrow at Cape Town Stadium. Sredojevic says his focus is firmly based on the match and will only think about going to play in the continent should they win the competition. “We have no right to think beyond, this is my respect to my dear colleague Benni McCarthy and Cape Town City that we must focus on this game.” Having beaten rivals Kaizer Chiefs in their last match, Pirates will be coming to this encounter with all their confidence against a team they have already defeated once this season in a league game. “It was a good confidence booster in terms of results but we must not get carried away about that result. “It won’t count for anything if we don’t focus, concentrate and continue to play much better than we played in that (last) match. “Like I said, it was an injection of confidence, but at the same moment we must focus on the game which is coming now and forget about Chiefs.” Meanwhile, in form attacking midfielder Luvuyo Memela didn’t train yesterday but Sredojevic said that there was nothing to worry about as the player had a flu virus and he was confident he will make it in time for the match. Memela scored two goals against Chiefs last weekend, a game that Pirates won 3-1. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za