As the country prepares to commemorate Human Rights Day on Wednesday, several political formations will be holding events around the country. Deputy President David Mabuza will address the main Human Rights Day commemoration event in Sharpeville. The day commemorates the killing of sixty-nine protesters by apartheid security during anti-pass law protests in Sharpeville near Vereeniging in 1960. It will be the first time that Mabuza addresses a public event since his appointment as deputy president. Mabuza said South Africa should use Human Rights Month to reflect on the dreams and aspirations of former President Nelson Mandela, which include respect for  basic human rights and commitment to the rule of law. “As we commemorate the Sharpeville Massacre and remember the ideals of President Mandela, government recommits itself to promote and protect the human rights and dignity of all South Africans, particularly socio-economic rights such housing, water, education and healthcare as reflected in the Bill of Rights,” Mabuza said. The formal programme of the event, to be held at the George Thabe Cricket Sports Ground, starts at 10am. Meanwhile, the DA will hold its Human Rights Day commemoration by unveiling a plaque at the Talisman Foundation in Johannesburg. Party leader Mmusi Maimane will unveil the plaque in remembrance of hundreds of mentally ill South Africans who lost their lives as a result of the Life Esidimeni tragedy where 144 patients died after being moved from the healthcare facility to unlicensed NGOs by the Gauteng health department. “This human rights tragedy will forever remain a stain on the conscience of our nation,” provincial DA leader John Moody said. The event starts at 11am at the Talisman Foundation on 58 Plinlimmon Road, The Hill, in Johannesburg. At the same time, EFF leader Julius Malema is expected to deliver the keynote address at Wesselton Stadium in Ermelo, Mpumalanga. The event starts at 10am. The UDM will hold its Human Rights Day commemoration by hosting a rally at DH Williams Ground in Katlehong, Ekurhuleni where party leader Bantu Holomisa is expected to speak about his party’s plans as it prepares for the 2019 general elections. Gates open at 9am Lastly, Cope will hold its commemoration at Itumeleng Hall in Manyatseng Ladybrand under the theme “South Africa belongs to all those who live in it”. The event starts at 10am. -TNA Reporter