Minister of Communication Nomvula Mokonyane has encouraged South Africans to jealously safeguard their hard-earned freedom and participate in all available platforms to strengthen the country’s young and thriving democracy. Mokonyane also urged all state institutions and bodies to protect, respect and affirm the rights of citizens in exercising their responsibilities and being of service to people. She said active participation in democratic institutions and processes is necessary to ensure the effective realisation of our human rights. “In a government’s message on the 59th anniversary of the Sharpeville massacre where the police killed more than 59 people who were protesting against the dompas system.” This year’s theme is The Year of Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela: Promoting and deepening a human rights culture across society. Mokonyane said remarkable progress has been made since the advent of democracy in 1994, now making South Africa a better place to live in. “In an attempt to address challenges related to unfair discrimination, hate speech and harassment, the government has put in place Equality courts. More courts have been built and Chapter 9 institutions continue to entrench constitutional protections.” As part of government’s constitutional education initiatives, Mokonyane said the Department of Justice and Constitutional Development, in partnership with the Department of Basic Education, launched a booklet called the Constitution Made Easy for Learners, which has to date been distributed to over 500 000 Grade 12 learners throughout the country. “This booklet contains the Preamble and Founding Provisions of the Constitution, and the Bill of Rights.” She said the outcomes of the Life Esidimeni Enquiry, as presented by former Deputy Chief Justice Dikgang Moseneke should act as a painful reminder that all those elected or appointed to serve the people must at all times do so with the utmost diligence and consideration of everyone as outlined in the Constitution. “In the spirit of Thuma Mina, we must act responsibly and be accountable for our actions as civil servants” concluded Minister Mokonyane.” Deputy President David Mabuza is expected to give a keynote address at the Sharpeville commemoration of the massacre today. -TNA Reporter 