DA leader Mmusi Maimane has described the EFF’s plan to table a motion of no confidence against Nelson Mandela Bay Mayor Athol Trollip as “madness” and “insane”. Maimane told hundreds of DA supporters at the party’s elective conference in Mpumalanga on Saturday that the EFF should be asked, what is the party’s thinking, especially residents of Nelson Mandela Bay and why they want to hand over the running of the city to the “corrupt” ANC? On Tuesday, while tabling a motion to amend the Constitution to allow the expropriation of land without compensation, which was subsequently supported by the ANC, EFF leader Julius Malema announced that his party would instruct its leadership in Nelson Mandela Bay to prepare to table a no-confidence motion against Trollip as punishment to the DA for opposing its motion. As a retaliation on Malema’s threats, the DA said it would report Malema to the Equality Court for what it said was hate speech and incitement of violence. Maimane said the DA-led administration in Nelson Mandela Bay had been able to cut off corruption, enabled by the ANC, during its administration of the city and that the ANC was now unhappy about this. “So, the ANC now wants the city back… Who is going to give it back to them? None other than the EFF,” Maimane said. He said in the past 18 months of the coalition, led by the DA, Nelson Mandela Bay had been able to get back on its feet and was currently among the best run metros in the country. Maimane said the current model of land expropriation, as tabled by the EFF, was not viable as it had been proven to be a failure throughout history. “All of history shows that the DA is right on this. The EFF and the ANC can have an argument with history but they will lose. They will lose because this mad idea has never worked in any context anywhere in the world. Everywhere it has been tried, it has caused only chaos and suffering for everyone.” ELECTIVE CONFERENCE OUTCOME Meanwhile, Jane Sithole retained her position as Mpumalanga DA leader while Trudie Grove-Morgan was elected as her deputy. Bosman Grobler was chosen as a provincial chairperson while Thembha Mlotshwa was elected as his deputy. Palesa Mobango was elected as a DA Youth leader while Kuzwakele Mdau and Linky Shongwe were both elected as her deputies. Annerie Weber was elected as DA Women’s Network (DAWN) chair while Elsie van Douwe was chosen as her deputy. The three additional members of DAWN are Merriam Moselane, Sibongile Mathebula and Susan Mathebula. -TNA Reporter