The Department of Health and the National Institute for Communicable (NICD) diseases have been able to identify the source of the listeriosis outbreak. Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi in a press briefing on Sunday said they conducted tests on children who were treated at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital when they became ill after eating polony. The minister was speaking on Sunday during a briefing on the disease and progress that has been made in relation to the outbreak. So far, 948 cases of the outbreak have been reported in the country with 180 people having succumbed to the foodborne disease. Motsoaledi said following the lead from the tests performed on the children and the food they had ingested at a creche in Soweto, Environmental Health Practitioners (EHPs), NICD and Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries representatives, accompanied by three technical advisers from the World Health Organisation(WHO) in Geneva, visited a food-production site in Polokwane and conducted extensive food product and environmental sampling. “The ST6 sequence type was confirmed on all three isolates on Saturday, 27 January,” Motsoaledi said. “To conclude the investigation, whole genome sequencing analysis was performed from this Enterprise factory and the results became available at midnight – or last night. The ST6 strain was confirmed in at least 16 environmental samples collected from this Enterprise facility.” “Listeria monocytogenes was isolated from over 30% of the environmental samples collected from this site, which happens to be the Enterprise factory in Polokwane.” “The EHPs were informed and on the same day visited the creche and obtained samples from two unrelated polony brands (manufactured by Enterprise and Rainbow Chicken Limited respectively) and submitted these to the laboratory for testing. “Listeria monocytogenes was isolated from stool collected from one of the ill children and from both of the polony specimens collected from the creche. These isolates were sent to the NICD Centre for Enteric Diseases and underwent whole genome sequencing and genomic analysis.” This is conclusive evidence that the source of the current outbreak can now be confirmed to be Enterprise Food Production in Polokwane. Motsoaledi said additional preliminary results showed that several ready-to-eat processed meat products from the Enterprise facility in Germiston contain L. monocytogenes but the sequence type is not known as yet. The minister said they had found listeria at the RCL Wolwehoek production facility in Sasolburg which produces food products also tested positive for another strand of listeria,  L.monocytogens. “Investigations are going on. Such contamination of ready-to-eat processed meat products constitutes a health risk. ” “Also, over 10% of environmental samples collected by EHPs at this facility have tested positive for L. monocytogenes. The sequence types of these isolates are not known as yet.” Motsoaledi also warned consumers against the eating of all processed meat products. These include polony, russians, viennas, sausages, ham, meat spreads, corned meat, salami, pepperoni and all other refrigerated uncooked foods. He said the department has in cooperation with the National Consumer Commission (NCC) in terms of Section 60(2) of the Consumer Protection Act issued the manufacturers concerned with safety recall notices. He said the NCC would prepare a recall strategy in conjunction with the manufacturers and make further announcements to the public in due course. Motsoaledi said the safety recall would affect the manufacturers’ entire distribution networks, both domestic and international. “Compliance notices will be issued to facilities in terms of the National Health Act.” SUSPENSION OF EXPORT LICENSE Motsoaledi said the export licenses issued by the Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries for both RCL Foods and Enterprise Foods has been temporarily susented till further notice. -TNA Reporter