International investigative agencies are now part of a Hawks investigation to determine the level of terrorism threat posed by kidnapping and robbery accused, Sayefudeen Aslam Del Vecchio and Bibi Fatima Patel, who are  allegedly linked to and in support of Islamist militant groups like ISIS and ISIL. The couple accused of the robbery and kidnapping of British couple Rachel and Rodney Saunders, appeared hand in hand inside the dock on Thursday before Magistrate Valaremen Kathuravaloo in the Verulam Magistrate’s Court. Also in court was co-accused Thembamandla Kwanele Xulu, who is only facing charges of robbery with aggravating circumstances. The robbery charge is in relation to the theft of the Saunders’ vehicle and more than R700 000 from their bank account. State prosecutor Adele Barnard told the court that charges against Xulu were upgraded from robbery to robbery with aggravating circumstances following the recovery of the Saunders’ vehicle in Durban. “There was blood found inside the vehicle. Forensic investigations are underway but the blood has been confirmed as being human,” Bernard told Kathuravaloo. The three suspects had been scheduled to make their bail applications on Thursday but the matter was postponed to 6 March due to court availability. Del Vecchio, carrying the Muslim holy book, the Quran, in a small bag, held on to a black hijab clad Patel as the charges were being read in court. According to the charge sheet Del Vecchio, 38 and Patel, 27, face up to five counts, two of them directly linked to supporting terrorism and the terrorism cell ISIS by displaying the ISIS flag and other paraphernalia. They also face charges of unlawfully soliciting or providing support for a terrorist organisation between 2015 and 2017. Del Vecchio faces an additional charge of malicious injury to property belonging to Tongaat Hullet, where he is accused of intentionally setting fire to sugar cane fields in September 2017, causing damage of over R2 million. “At the moment we can’t say which (international) agencies those are but they are working with us. But I can confirm items found do belong to ISIS and they were found in the property where the the two accused were arrested in the Mthunzini area. The other issue we have it that there are now three crime scenes and the Saunders have yet to be found,” Hawks spokesperson Captain Lloyd Ramovha said. The first crime scene is on Vryheid where the Saunders were allegedly kidnapped, the second in the Ndlovini area, Mthunzini, where all three suspects were arrested and the third being in Durban where the bloody vehicle belonging to the Saunders was found. Ramovha has appealed to anyone with information to assist with the investigation into locating the Saunders and urged them to call the provincial joint operations centre on 031 325 6044, which has been set up for this case. -TNA Reporter