The commission of inquiry set to investigate state capture can now start with its work after Deputy Chief Justice Ray Zondo on Wednesday announced the team that will help him get to the bottom of allegations of state capture by the Gupta family. Former President Jacob Zuma earlier this year appointed Zondo as the chairperson of the commission after he was instructed by former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela to appoint a judge handpicked by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng. Zondo said the team he has appointed consists of a lot of people with experience in all sectors, from law to accounting. Secretary of the commission: Dr Khotso de Wee Dr Khotso de Wee, who was the acting secretary-general in the office of the Chief Justice, Mogoeng Mogoeng, will deal with all matters related to administration at the commission. Head of the legal team: Advocate Paul Pretorius SC Pretorius has previously worked as an acting judge at the South Gauteng High Court. Head of Investigations: Terrence Nombembe Former Auditor-General Terrence Nombembe is one of the appointments made by Zondo. Nombembe is currently head of the SA Institute of Chartered Accountants (Saica).He recently instituted an investigation into KPMG for violating its code of conduct while doing work for the Gupta family businesses. Legal team: Isaac Vincent Maleka SC Maleka has appeared in court on some of the biggest cases in South Africa. Maleka is a well-known senior advocate. He has previously served as a judge of the High Court and Labour Court. Leah Gcabashe SC Senior Counsel Gcabashe was vice chairperson of the Johannesburg Society of Advocates and a member of advocates for transformation. Thandi Victoria Norman Norman is a chairperson of Advocates for Transformation in KwaZulu-Natal and a member of the Judicial Services Commission. Meanwhile, when asked when the commission was going to start with its work, Zondo could not give a clear answer as to when that day would be. He said there are still lot of logistics that still have to be put in place, but the appointment of his team was a good start. -TNA Reporter