THOUSANDS of poor Johannesburg residents are being denied their basic right to free water. This is one of the findings contained in a research report published by nongovernmental organisation Socioeconomic Rights Institute (Seri) last week. According to Seri, of the 650000 households in the city of Johannesburg that are considered poor and therefore entitled to free basic water, only 321 984 are receiving the service. The organisation attributed this state of affairs to a decision by Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba a year go to cut off the universal provision of six kilolitres of water per household. When Mashaba announced last year that only people whose names were in the indigent register would be provided free water, his decision was met with a series of protests by residents from townships across the city. Now a year later, Seri has called for a review of the policy as it is “regressive” and that the registration process was flawed as more than half of the people who qualify for the service have not been added to the register. “The withdrawal of the universal provision of free basic water has significant implications for the poor and their right to sufficient water. “The city is not constitutionally obligated to supply its residents with immediate access to water. “It is however obligated to take reasonable legislative and other measures, within its available resources, to achieve the progressive realisation of the right to access sufficient water,” the report by Seri researcher Kelebogile Khunou found. The report said by withdrawing free water services from those not registered as indigents and narrowly targeting households in need of free water, the city announced that it would recover more than R320m which it would use to improve service delivery to the poor. However, it has been found that the city’s registration criteria exclude the undocumented poor, as only those with South African IDs are eligible to register. “The city’s method to target the poor to provide them with free basic services is ineffective and inequitable. Its decision to withdraw the universal provision of 6kl of free basic water is regressive. The majority of the poor are not registered and the systems required to ensure that indigent households are registered will come at a high cost, administratively and to the people registering,” said. Last year in July, only four months after the policy was announced, Soweto residents took to the streets to protest, saying it was subjecting the poor living in Soweto to deeper poverty. Residents said that they were told by a local councillor that from July last year they would start paying for water. The community also complained that Mashaba did not address them but sent metro police to fire rubber bullets at a peaceful protest. Since July 2017, all households have had to pay for their water services from the first litre unless they are registered as indigent on the city’s register. “Moreover, the city is yet to provide a convincing financial argument for the withdrawal of the universal provision of free water given that the city’s rising block tariff structure has always allowed it to remain financially viable. “The result of the decision is that there are hundreds of thousands of households that are excluded and need to be informed of the expanded social package and undergo the registration process, which in itself is a deeply flawed method,” Khunou found. The city of Johannesburg’s spokesperson, Luyanda Mfeka, did not respond to questions posed to her. -DIKELEDI MOLOBELA|dikeledir@thenewage.co.za