SERVICE delivery protests which erupted on the day voter registration started saw some stations being disrupted, one burned down and seven having to be closed in Katlehong alone. About 22 600 voting stations officially opened the 2019 national elections registration late last week and by yesterday afternoon the Independent Electoral Commission said by Saturday 150000 people had registered. In Katlehong on the East Rand, the weekend-long protest over prepaid electricity meters affected operations at seven voting stations in Ward 55. Nthabankulu in the Eastern Cape experienced similar problems with the community disrupting voting stations until the mayor and councillor arrived to address their grievances. In Tongaat, KwaZulu-Natal, protesters threatened landlords of venues used by the Electoral Commission forcing staff to set up gazebos to continue their work, while in QwaQwa and Harrismith in the Free State protesting residents demolished tents erected as temporary voting stations and went as far as burning one tent. In Dunoon in the Western Cape protesting residents forced the evacuation of election staff by police for their own safety while in Leratong Park in Kimberley a tent was vandalised. The Vhembe district in the Collins Chabane municipality around the Vuwani area there was an ongoing protest regarding the municipal demarcation dispute that affected voter registration operations. The IEC said in Vhembe district 34 stations were erected in the area on Saturday. “Only five stations out of the 34 were boycotted and did not host any visitors on Saturday. But the 29 stations managed to record a combined total number of 888 people on Saturday,” the provincial electoral officer said. Police spokesperson Lt-Col Moatshe Ngoepe said no reports of damage to property or harm to any person related to the IEC campaigns were reported on Saturday. “Despite some continued isolated disruptions in a handful of areas, the Electoral Commission is pleased to report that most incidents which had affected registration operations yesterday had been resolved and almost all voting stations are operational today (Sunday),” IEC spokesperson Kate Bapela said. “The Electoral Commission would like to express its appreciation to community leaders, political leaders and traditional leaders as well as the community members themselves for their assistance and support in ensuring voter registration activities could continue in almost all areas today,” Bapela said. More than 73 000 election officials were reported in place in some 22 600 voting stations. Meanwhile, in Limpopo, the IEC said voter registration and verification of addresses of potential voters kicked off well in most of the 3 111 voting stations in the province though hiccups were encountered in some parts. IEC provincial electoral officer Nkaro Mateta told The New Age that there was a stalemate at some voter registrations station which was the situation on a soccer field in Tafelkop outside Groblersdal yesterday morning. “The station worked well on Saturday but this morning (Sunday) soccer players have a match and demand to use the field, right now police are there to help find amicable solution. “There were also some complaints about some of our officials in other stations in the province and they are being investigated,” Mateta said. “On Saturday, things went well in most parts, a total of 150 000 people visited the stations to register, verify their addresses or submit their new addresses. It was very impressive at the University of Limpopo outside Polokwane, students showed large interest that we had to deploy additional officials to deal with the long queues at our stations on Saturday,” she said. provinces@thenewage,co.za -NTOMBI NKOSI, MONTSHO MATLALA AND BECKER SEMELA