THE Nedbank Cup has not been friendly to Orlando Pirates in the past two seasons after crushing back-to-back final losses to SuperSport United. And that pain is still fresh for defender Happy Jele who was involved in those defeats. As they continue with their journey in this season’s campaign, Jele now believes Lady Luck will be with them as they look to win the title and end the now four-year drought. “It has been up and down in this tournament for us. There were some moments when we did great in the past but recently we have not had any luck,” Jele said. “It’s a great thing for us to be part of the next round and we are looking forward to working hard and progressing to the next round.” Standing on their way of reaching the quarterfinal is Cape Town City, a team they meet tonight at the Cape Town Stadium. With City doing well under coach Benni McCarthy, it has not escaped Jele’s attention that Pirates will need to double their efforts if they wish to overcome City. They face a team that has been hard to beat, particularly at home, and one relishing the prospect of bringing Pirates back down to earth following their impressive victory over Kaizer Chiefs in the Soweto derby last week. “Benni has been doing well for his first time as a coach. I know him personally and obviously he knows most of our players since he played with us in the recent past. But when we are there on the field it’s going to be war.” Among the highlights of Jele and McCarthy’s time as teammates at the Buccaneers was the treble-winning campaign during the 2011-12 season. Now they are coming face to face with the lethal former Porto, West Ham United and Blackburn Rovers striker now calling the shots for City. “I have learnt a lot from him, like his passion for football and his respect for the people, he’s a good guy. “He won a lot of things in his career so you have to learn a lot from him,” Jele said. Following Pirates’ impressive run recently, Jele has credited the hard work that everyone has been putting in at training. “Each and everyone is working for his place. For now we are looking forward to building up the guys that are in the team, the ones who came in this season to be good within the overall structure.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za