Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba on Wednesday noted with concern a video of a department official circulating on social media depicting her seemingly preoccupied with her phone while at work. The video shows the female official “multitasking” by carrying out her duties while devoted to her cellphone. The employee can be seen stamping on passport while hardly looking at the documents. Following an investigation initiated by the minister, the official has been confirmed that she is stationed at the Beitbridge Port of Entry. Director-General Mkuseli Apleni has confirmed that the official and her superiors will be subjected to internal disciplinary processes. “Of major concern to me is the fact that the official is dealing with security documents without paying attention to detail and rather preoccupied with her cellular phone. To this end, we have commenced with disciplinary measures against the official and the three supervisors,” he said. The video has since received a lot of attention on social media with users criticising the level of customer service from government officials. Gigaba said he has requested that his department investigate. I was this morning informed about the video circulating on social media platforms, and have asked the Department of @HomeAffairsSA to investigate this matter and take swift action against the official. pic.twitter.com/ZwllSemEyZ — Malusi Gigaba (@mgigaba) March 14, 2018 somebody can visit home affairs in Queenstown (E.C) those are the worse workers ever. abakhathali and bakrwada ebantwini — SANELE TOM (@SaneleT_) March 14, 2018 First of all what’s the policy of the dept on cellphones for front office during working hours? Where was the supervisor? Imagine being assisted by such a disrespectful officer but of course she is our black sister so we can’t call for her sacking #failedcivilservice — The Princess⚘ (@moregish) March 14, 2018 For me this is mainly a customer service issue. She is disrespecting the customer by being primarily focused on her phone to the point that her ability to provide a professional service – checking the documentation properly – is heavily compromised. — Wendy Knowler (@wendyknowler) March 14, 2018 Such negligence. She did not verify any information. Just stamp. Whatsapp. Move on. Wow. As much as we all use our phones during working hours, we hide it as soon as someone walks into your space. She did not even bother. Level of unbothered f*^%ery on another level. Wow Sis! — MaDube (@MsMahlengy) March 14, 2018 -TNA Reporter