MINERAL Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe has thrown down the gauntlet after the Association for Mining and Construction Union (Amcu), claimed it had not been invited to Mantashe’s engagement with stakeholders on the new mining charter last weekend. “If you don’t attend meetings, we carry on without you,” the minister said at a feedback meeting on Tuesday. “Amcu was invited. If you don’t come to meetings, we will continue without you. It does not matter who you are. No one will hold us to random,” the minister said. The meetings were arranged to tackle the sticky issues on the new mining charter which became mired in acrimony and court actions when it was presented by Mantashe’s predecessor last July. Minister Mantashe has 31 years of experience in the mining industry but has been in the important job only since late February. “Since my appointment I’ve been familiarising myself with challenges facing the industry. Key aspects to address with urgency and speed relate to policy and legislation,” he said. “We need to strive for certainty to make sure that investors are confident in the industry,” he said. Mantashe said his engagement with industry players was robust and was meant to hear their concerns over the controversial third version of the mining charter and that the charter was one of his priorities. He said his meetings with business, unions and members of the parliamentary portfolio committee on mineral resources were aimed at addressing issues relating to the growth and competitiveness of the country’s mining sector. “The meeting recognised that there was a lack of consultation between the ministry and the partners in the past, Mantashe said. He announced that two task teams aimed at addressing disagreements around the mining charter had been formed. This followed his engagement with stakeholders and that they would report back to the ministry in three weeks. He insisted the charter would not be revisited in its entirety. “We asked stakeholders to identify problems in the charter and if the task team agrees the complaints are genuine then such elements will be changed. “We have resolved the first problem by opening dialogue and consultation with stakeholders, something which was not there before,” he said. He said the issue of mine ownership was not a big deal, referring to the 30% ownership by black people and the 1% levy to shareholders as prescribed in the charter. “I’m not here to criticise my predecessors. I don’t judge people in public court. I’m not going to do that,” he said. However, Mantashe came under fire from mining communities at the media briefing, accusing him of not involving them in changes to the charter. Mantashe replied that consultation with communities will happen, but the lambasting continued, with hecklers arguing that the minister was more concerned about investors than them. “We will have meetings with communities and all stakeholders in areas of mining. We are not mine owners, we are the regulator.” Mantashe said he had also taken note of the operational challenges at the Gupta-owned Tegeta mines Koornfontein, Shiva, Brakfontein and Optimum. “Business rescue practitioners say these are still good assets, which can be viably mined by another operator. “We don’t want jobs to be lost. We are doing everything possible to save jobs in these mines,” he said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za