PUBLIC protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane yesterday put up a brave front in the face of tough questions from MPs in the justice and correctional services portfolio on her work. Mkhwebane answered a range of questions covering her report on the Estina Dairy Farm project in Vrede, her office’s lack of resources, as well as her report into the apartheid-era BankorpAbsa bailout. Mkhwebane was grilled by the DA’s Glynnis Breytenbach on her insistence on pursuing a “frivolous” CIEX report after it was set aside in court. She was also asked why she met with the Presidency weeks prior to releasing her report. Mkhwebane defended her meeting with the Presidency, arguing that her report recommended that former president Jacob Zuma institute a commission of inquiry. “My conduct was based on sincerity and I conducted this investigation in good faith. I did not have any secretive meeting. The only meeting I had was not with the president but with the legal adviser because we wanted to clarify the issue of remedial action (commission of inquiry),” she said. The Reserve Bank filed an affidavit in the high court in Pretoria in which it accused Mkhwebane of colluding with the Presidency to change its constitutional mandate, two weeks before she released her report. During proceedings, members of advocacy group Black First, Land First, filled the committee room, hoisting banners in support of Mkhwebane, whom the group believed was being “persecuted” for her investigation into her report that ordered that R1.24bn be recovered from Banking group Absa. Regarding the Vrede dairy farm scandal, MPs demanded to know why no politicians were called to account in her report, which was described as a “whitewash”. She was accused of letting the likes of Premier Ace Magashule, and former mineral resources minister, Mosebenzi Zwane, off the hook. Mkhwebane said the scope of her report was limited to maladministration and financial mismanagement, as per the request of the original complaint. She said her office had no jurisdiction over criminal matters and the country’s law enforcement agencies were the relevant bodies to act on such matters. “That is not stopping any (future) complaint from being launched and we can investigate,” she said. Breytenbach lashed out at Mkhwebane, asking her why did she not expand the scope of her investigation. “What you failed to investigate was the most serious allegations of corruption, money laundering and theft. Why did you not investigate this? Breytenbach asked. “There was nothing stopping you from expanding the scope of the report.” However, Mkhwebane fired back, insisting that she received no complaints about Magashule or Zwane. “There was no mention in the report where it was also implicating certain politicians or stuff like that,” she told MPs. “There was at no stage where the executive or politicians were investigated on their own and there is no information in the record, before my time, that questions were asked,” Mkhwebane said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO