COMMUNITIES need to develop the Saamwerk Saamtrek (Working Together) philosophy so they can live a better life, Business Regulations chief director Onnicah Sithole said. Sithole was speaking during the cleaning campaign as part of Human Rights Month activities at the Letsema Drop-In Centre in Ward 30 Tshing, Ventersdorp, in JB Marks local municipality. She said this was a departmental social responsibility programme undertaken quarterly in an effort to make a difference in disadvantaged communities and encouraging a culture of giving by liquor traders in the province. “Let us all adopt the Saamwerk Saamtrek philosophy for a better life for all. It is only through our commitment to responsible trading and drinking that we can make the liquor industry sustainable and contribute to the affected families,” Sithole said. The department of economics and enterprise development said it had identified two community initiatives, the Letsema Drop-In Centre and Tsholofelo Home-based care and assisted them  with premises and donated vegetable garden seeds and cleaning material. The initiative was supported by the Ventersdorp Liquor Traders Owners who donated 44 pairs of school shoes for the kids who are taken care of at the centre. The centre began in April 2006 . Assistant manager of the centre, David Ntsie, said the project started after realising the increase in number of kids who were loitering in the streets and decided to help them with extra classes activities which included homework for grades 1 – 12 pupils and giving them food. He said the centre was also providing a laundry service to disadvantaged pupils and school visits to monitor daily activities, school performance and encourage them to work hard and be disciplined. “We feel honoured and blessed for the support from all the stakeholders. This has made the community start appreciating the role of the centre. I believe we are all going to work together to show love and support for our children,” Ntsie said. charloteh@thenewage.co.za -CHARLOTE HLANGWANE