The fact that the majority of pupils in the country are taught in a second language is a major stumbling block to their grasp of mathematics and science, the Department of Basic Education (DBE) has said. According to the department, literacy was critical for understanding and problem-solving in maths and science. “It is always noticed that pupils who take the subjects in their mother tongue do well, hence the system is emphasising the teaching of basic literacy in all schools. In the FET band, English across the curriculum is emphasised,” department spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said. Mhlanga said although there was a shortage of maths and science teachers in the country, it was not a crisis and the situation could still be salvaged through collaborative efforts with different organisations. “Different approaches have been applied by provinces to address any shortage and these strategies are yielding positive results,” he said. The DBE has put in place a broad-based teacher recruitment strategy that includes the Funza Lushaka Bursary Scheme. The campaign is focused, among other things, on attracting prospective maths, physical science and technology teachers. The campaign has been implemented in all nine provinces. “The priority areas of the Funza Lushaka bursary programme for 2018 include mathematics, physical science and technology amongst others. A further addition has been the inclusion of technical mathematics and technical science as priority areas,” Mhlanga said. In 2016 the DBE signed a memorandum of understanding with Teach South Africa in a bid to address the shortage of qualified maths teachers in schools across the country. Last year, through Teach SA, 112 teachers were placed in schools for maths, 43 for physical science and 21 for English. “Our ambassadors are highly innovative in their style of teaching remembering that some of the schools we send our ambassadors to are most disadvantaged and insufficiently resourced so it falls on our ambassadors to bring new solutions in the classroom to ensure pupils are able to grasp concepts,” Teach SA’s Lerato Kgatle said. “We have also documented significant increases in school performances where these subjects are concerned, propelling pupils to advance to university institutions or otherwise elevating the prestige of their school by helping to deliver promising results at the end of each year.” lillians@thenewage.co.za