AFTER being cleared of wrongdoing regarding R26m worth of alleged transgressions, Public Investment Corporation CEO Daniel Matjila is not off the hook. He is facing tough questions from the Public Servants Association, which wants answers to why the PIC invested R500bn in Eskom. Matjila was on Friday found not guilty of any wrongdoing regarding accusations that he had irregularly funded a company headed by a female friend. The PIC board issued a statement clearing Matjila. The PIC came under attack last month from unions after it agreed to grant Eskom a short-term loan of R5bn to keep the struggling enterprise afloat. The loan was repaid last Thursday. “PIC has been involved with Eskom for many years, so I’m not sure what the problem with the R500bn is,” Khulu Phasiwe, Eskom spokesperson, said. “PIC has been helping Eskom from time to time over the years, as it does with other entities.” Last week, Eskom entered into a short-loan agreement with a consortium of seven local and international banks. The signing of the loan came only one day after ratings agency S&P downgraded Eskom’s credit rating from B- to CCC+. However, PSA said recent developments and a further downgrade of Eskom by S&P Global Ratings to CCC+, the seventh rung of non-investment grade, are causing great concern for the union regarding the state of public servants pension investments. “S&P regards Eskom as cashstrapped and remaining at risk of a default in the next six months. The PIC has on behalf of the Government Employees Pension Fund (GEPF) invested R500bn in the power utility. “Based on S&P’s report, this money could be lost, given the current state of affairs at Eskom,” PSA General Manager, Ivan Fredericks said. Fredericks said measures that government has taken to help Eskom are insufficient. “Although Eskom managed to repay a R5bn short-term loan to PIC, we now have to face a possibility of losing R500bn of workers’ pensions,” Fredericks said. He said the PSA had for some time been questioning the PIC’s investment decisions and that this also resulted in the union’s demand to have union representatives on the PIC board to fulfil an oversight role on the use if GEPF money. “The PIC must come forth with a way forward on how its plans to mitigate the R500bn junk assets without including the government bonds that are currently worth nothing. “We will continue to pursue this matter to ensure the protection of public servants’ pension funds,” Fredericks said. Both the PIC and Treasury could not respond to questions regarding this matter. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za