THE trial of Karabo Mokoena’s alleged murderer Sandile Mantsoe, 27, will get under way in the South Gauteng High Court today. The 15-day trial was rescheduled to today due to new developments in the case which resulted in its postponement during his last appearance. Mantsoe is facing charges of premeditated murder, assault with the intent to cause grievous bodily harm and defeating the ends of justice. The matter has since been moved from the magistrate’s court to the high court. The suspect allegedly murdered and set alight Mokoena, his then girlfriend of seven months, and buried her in a shallow grave in Lyndhurst. In his bail application, the court heard it was possible that Mokoena was alive when Mantsoe doused her with petrol and acid before setting her alight. Mantsoe, who was denied bail in June by the Johannesburg Central Magistrate’s Court, is in custody. The suspects in a Mpumalanga cashin-transit heist trial will appear in the Lydenburg Magistrate’s court today. The gang of six are expected to appear after a planned cash-in-transit heist was prevented during a joint intelligence-driven operation by the SAPS in Mpumalanga and Limpopo tracking teams. The suspects aged between 31 and 39 were arrested in Lydenburg on Thursday. They were found in possession of four firearms including a R4 rifle as well as three pistols. The men are facing charges of conspiracy to commit a crime, illegal possession of firearms and ammunition as well as possession of a stolen motor vehicle. In Cape Town, the pre-trial conference of the four men accused of raping and murdering Stellenbosch University student Hannah Cornelius, will resume on Friday in the Western Cape High Court. Eben van Niekerk, Nashwill Julies, Vernon Witbooi and Geraldo Parsons are accused of murder, kidnapping and rape following the brutal attack on Cornelius and her friend, Cheslin Marsh, in May last year. Cornelius’s body was discovered on the side of the road near a wine farm early on May 27. She was last seen alive with Marsh when four men approached her car in Bird Street in Stellenbosch. shonisani@thenewage.co.za -SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE