The DA has announced that it will forge ahead once again with a Motion of No Confidence in Gauteng Premier David Makhura in an attempt to have him atone for the deaths of 141 Life Esidimeni mental health patients. DA leader Mmusi Maimane made the announcement on Wednesday at the Talisman Foundation in Johannesburg during an event where he unveiled a plaque to commemorate the Life Esidimeni tragedy. “This is the ANC in Gauteng’s opportunity to show that “full responsibility” means just that. Because the families of the Esidimeni victims deserve a lot better than empty platitudes from those who brought about this tragedy,” said Maimane. The plaque unveiled by @MmusiMaimane today, remembering the victims of the Life Esidimeni tragedy. “Never again can we allow people’s rights to be trampled by a callous government.” – @MmusiMaimane #HumanRightsDay pic.twitter.com/Mqch9yVdp4 — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) March 21, 2018 This comes after retired deputy chief justice Dikgang Moseneke released his report following a 45-day arbitration hearing into the tragedy on Monday. He found that government officials breached the constitutional rights of mentally ill patients and their families adding that they also stripped the families of their rights. He found that reasons of the former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu, head of department Dr Barney Selebano and head of the mental health directorate, Dr Makagbo Manamela, for the termination of the Life Esidimeni contract were irrational. Maimane on Wednesday once again called for the top officials implicated to be criminally charged. “Judge Moseneke states very clearly in his report that the ball is now in SAPS’s court to investigate speedily and institute the necessary criminal charges. This is the only way true justice will be served.” The DA leader also welcomed the R1.2m government has been ordered to pay each family. “While no amount of money can possibly compensate for the loss of loved ones, this is a vast improvement on the paltry R200,000 originally offered by the Gauteng provincial government,” he said. It now remains to be seen whether the DA will succeed in its bid to oust Makhura. Last year an identical motion brought by the DA and Economic Freedom Fighters was defeated. The motion was proposed by the EFF’s Christina Mabala who said the premier was not fit to hold office anymore because of his failure to halt the tragic transfer of the patients to facilities that were ill-equipped to deal with them. The motion only got 29 votes instead of the 48 required for it to be successful. -TNA Reporter