THE case of the Hildegard Antoinette Steenkamp, 43, accused of defrauding a Midrand medical facility company of R460m, has been postponed to May 31. The woman from Boksburg appeared yesterday in the Johannesburg specialised commercial court for defrauding her former employer while she was working as an accountant. Representatives of the Midrandbased company and the accountant at Medtronic, opened a case when they could not recognise a credit provider on their database. The Hawks raided the woman’s house last year. “In our investigations we found out that the woman diverted funds of the company by duplicating creditors amounts and paying it into her former husband’s account who died after shooting himself in the hospital,” Hawks spokesperson Ndivhuwo Mulamu said. Steenkamp who is facing charges of fraud, theft and money laundering was granted bail of R250000 last year. Mulamu said the court tried to oppose bail after receiving information that she was suicidal. “The state did not oppose the bail application presented by the defence, but that morning before the court proceedings information came to our attention that last year alone, she tried to commit suicide twice so that was our motive for denying bail,” Mulamu said. Mulamu said even though the case had been postponed, her bail conditions still apply. “The bail conditions were that the woman could not relocate and if she does so she must inform the investigating officer and must also give reasons. “She must not leave town without the knowledge of the investigating officer and hand in her ID including all her travelling documents and report three times a week to the Boksburg police station. “Her husband and children are also to hand in their travelling documents,” she said. During the raid, the Hawks attached jewellery worth 12m, 11 luxury cars and seven immovable properties. The accused also owned a beauty parlour and gym. The woman had been working for the company for 13 years. -SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE|shonisanit@thenewage.co.za