A REPORT compiled by the department of agriculture estimates that the impact of the drought on the Western Cape’s Gross value Added (GVA) will be R5.9bn. The report conducted with the Bureau for Food and Agricultural Policy (BFAP) also revealed that exports are expected to decline between 13% and 20% this year. GVA was a measure of all the goods and services produced by a sector. Economic opportunities MEC Alan Winde said the estimated number of job losses in the sector remains at 30000. “StatsSA jobs date released in February indicated that we had actually gained jobs in the agriculture sector over the last quarter. However, if we compare the past quarter to the same period last year, we see the severe impact that this drought is beginning to have on jobs and livelihoods,” he said. Winde said the agriculture sector had on average had to cut its water use by 60% and some areas had already reduced their entire water allocation. Subsequently there had been a significant decline in farm output as farmers prioritise crops with higher profit margins such as fruits and abandoned vegetables and other crops. “We recognise how difficult this period has been for farmers. These numbers bring home the impact of this drought, not just on our economy, but on our people. We have no choice but to support this vital sector to ensure that it is able to continue production until good rains come. “The agriculture industry has taken several knocks aside from the drought. We estimate the economic impact of avian flu on poultry farmers to be around R800m,” Winde said. “Thunderstorms and hail recently destroyed around 200000 cartons of  late season plums and the strong rand is taking its toll on exporters.” Going forward Winde said the priorities would be for the drought to be declared a national disaster so that further resources could be unlocked to protect food security and the livelihoods of workers who have been severely impacted. The province is presently experiencing the worst drought in its history with no indication of good rains in the future for relief. The city of Cape Town, in an effort to save water has implemented stringent measures for water use in public and business sectors with heavy fines for those who fail to heed the tough conditions. Those heavily affected by the drought are the agricultural sector as well as the hotel businesses and other entertainment places. The situation had also resulted in heavy job loses in the agriculture sector. vincentc@thenewage.co.za -VINCENT CRUYWAGEN