The ANC Joburg Region has on Thursday submitted a memorandum to the Public Protector requesting her to investigate the mismanagement and maladministration in the City of Johannesburg which includes the misuse of public funds and misleading residents. The submitted memorandum requests that the investigation looks into irregular appointments, purging of employees, irregular salary increases, financial mismanagement, conflict of interest and maladministration. The ANC accuses the DA-led government in Johannesburg of irregularly appointing people. It is believed that David Tembe was allegedly irregularly appointed to the position of Executive Director. “On irregular salary increases, the Chief of Staff, Mr Michael Beaumont’s salary was irregularly increased with the full knowledge and consent of the Executive Mayor. When the matter was raised in Council, the Executive Mayor acknowledged this fact and committed to reversing the salary increase. “To date, this has not been done. Over and above the irregular salary increase, the Chief of Staff has been allocated the use of a state vehicle and VIP protection, which he is not entitled to,” regional spokesperson Jolidee Matongo said. Matongo said Mayor Herman Mashaba partook in seeing Grant Thornton, a company in which Lephatsi Financial Services, a company owned by his wife Ms Connie Mashaba and consequently owns a 35% stake in Grant Thornton, being awarded a lucrative multi-million tender to undertake forensic investigations in the City with a direct benefit to Lephatsi Financial Services. “The Executive Mayor unlawfully and irregularly entered the procurement space and solicited free services from Lephatsi Financial Services. This is a clear state of conflict of interest.” The ANC said Mashaba has been on a witch-hunt to rid the City of all ANC affiliated employees. “The appointment of KPMG to conduct investigations in various departments including the Revenue Unit in 2016 was done without advertising a tender as required by MFMA and Supply Chain Management Regulations. “The basis of this appointment was through unsolicited bid procedures. In 2017, the services of KPMG were retained to perform analysis of the customer accounts in the City’s database and develop strategies to improve the City’s revenue collection.” The ANC said it wants the Public Protector to intervene and ensure that the City of Johannesburg adheres to good governance principles. -TNA Reporter  