CAPITEC Bank is still gaining ground after the markets recovered from an earlier shock triggered by a Viceroy report which plunged the bank into controversy. The bank, in a trading update has announced that its headline earnings a share were expected to be between 3 806 cents and 3 904 cents a share, representing an increase of between 16% and 19% compared to the 3 281 cents a share reported in the prior year. Earnings a share were expected to be between 3 802 cents and 3 901 cents a share, representing an increase of between 16% and 19% compared to the 3 278 cents per share reported in the prior year. Capitec bounced back despite criticism in the wake of the Viceroy report, although its share price has not recovered from the drop immediately after the Viceroy report. The banks share gained 1.25% yesterday to trade at R878 whereas before the Viceroy report was published the company’s shares were sitting comfortably at R1069 a share. The Research firm and whistle-blower on Capitec said that several former banking staff as well as five debt-counselling firms with proprietary data sets on South African unsecured lending supported their thesis that a “curing” method was how Capitec allegedly hid the disastrous underlying performance of its loan book. “If a borrower in arrears is able to beg or borrow the funds from a secondary lender to pay down their arrears and make themselves ‘current’, Capitec immediately offers them a new, larger loan. The borrowers use this new, larger Capitec loan to pay off the secondary lender used to cover the arrears,” Viceroy said. Capitec told The New Age that it had extended an invitation to Viceroy to clarify questions. “Capitec operates in one of the bestregulated financial industries in the world. Various regulators and government institutions have confirmed their support of Capitec since the release of the Viceroy report. “In addition, international independent rating agency, Standard and Poor’s, said that the report had no bearing on its rating of the bank. “We encourage anyone with allegations of wrongdoing to share the information and documentation with the National Credit Regulator or other relevant regulators, so that the normal regulatory processes can be followed. This applies to Viceroy as well,” the bank said. Viceroy yesterday said that Capitec’s response had been “inadequate”. “We have been criticised for not engaging with management prior to publication of our reports. Capitec’s response is a prime example of why we choose not to. “We maintain our recommendation that Capitec should be subject to an external, independent regulatory investigation, which we believe will result in Capitec being placed in curatorship in order to protect its consumers”. The financial results for the year ended February are expected to be published at month end. -THELMA NGOMA |thelmn@thenewage.co.za