THE 53-year-old Ligugu Secondary School principal in Dundonald, Mpumalanga, accused of raping four boys is set to appear today in the Eerstehoek Magistrate’s Court for bail application. The man, who was arrested on Tuesday, briefly appeared in the Mayflower periodical court yesterday. Police spokesperson Leonard Hlathi said the man was facing charges relating to sexual assault. It is alleged that an 18-year-old pupil who was the first to open a case was raped last week Thursday at the school premises by the principal. Hlathi said the police were still investigating the matter. “I don’t want to talk much about this case, we want space to investigate this matter. The cases have been opened but I cannot say when they were opened and all I can say is that we are investigating and emanating from such we have effected an arrest on the 53-year-old man who will appear tomorrow in the Mayflower Magistrate’s Court,”Hlathi said. The Mpumalanga department of education said it was aware of the allegations levelled against the principal of Ligugu Secondary School. The department’s spokesperson, Gerald Sambo, said the matter was brought to the department’s attention by the circuit manager who received the report from the chief of the community. “We have since learnt that he was arrested. The department is highly disappointed and condemns such actions in the highest degree. Children should at all times feel safe within the school premises, protected by the teachers from any form of danger. We expect our teachers to teach and protect the pupils and we hereby plead with them to refrain from such gross misconduct. “We are happy that the chief brought the matter to the department’s attention and encourage our communities to report similar cases so that the perpetrators are brought to book and our schools are free from such barbaric actions.” Sambo said as things stand, the department’s labour directorate had started conducting investigations on the matter. “The teacher in question will be subjected to a disciplinary hearing and should he be found guilty, he will have to face the consequences of his actions. We are also going to work with the South African police to make sure that the full might of the law takes its course and justice prevails,” Sambo said. He said the department would offer the affected pupils counselling. “We are going to send officials from the wellness section who will work with the social workers in rendering counselling sessions to the affected pupils and anyone who might be affected by the incident.” Sambo said. shonisanit@thenewage.co.za -SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE