SUPERSPORT United midfielder Teboho Mokoena couldn’t have asked for much more than the call-up he received to Bafana Bafana this week for the Four Nations tournament in Zambia next week. Mokoena, who has been one of the best players for SuperSport since last season, was lost for words when asked how he felt following the show of confidence in him by Bafana coach Stuart Baxter. The 20-year-old midfielder described the selection as a big achievement for him and predicted that the experience would benefit his development. “I’m happy because this is a big achievement for me. I didn’t really expect it but I embrace the challenge,” Mokoena said. “I’m ready for it and I will come back a more improved player.” Mokoena will be reunited with his former coach, who gave him his breakthrough at SuperSport when he was still in charge of the Tshwaneside. The youngster has already experienced international football at youth level, starring for Amajita at the World Cup in South Korea last year and he knows that wearing the senior national team jersey will be even more special. “Coach Baxter knows my strong points and my weaknesses so I just have to go there and do my best. “Playing abroad gives you more knowledge and more experiences against bigger teams, especially in the World Cup. “It was more challenging than playing on the continent. And getting a call up for Bafana Bafana is going to be a big challenge. I have to go there and impress and do my best.” With former coach Eric Tinkler having left SuperSport recently and with reports that he had lost the dressing room before his departure, Mokoena insisted that the players had done their best, to no avail. “Things didn’t go our way with the previous coach and it didn’t work out. “We have to work hard to move away from the relegation zone. We don’t want to see ourselves fighting for relegation. We must work hard to be in the top eight and hopefully we will get there. “We did give the coach the support he needed and I don’t blame him. He is a good coach, he is experienced. He mentored us well so I don’t have bad things to say about him.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za