GETTING big corporates and government entities as clients continues to be a struggle for black lawyers in the country due to historical reasons. And although things are slowly changing, more needs to be done to give black legal practitioners more cases, Lutendo Sigogo, president of the Black Lawyers Association (BLA), said. “We still struggle to get big corporates as our clients and I believe this is because of the past and we know this thing will come to pass as we keep on showing them that we are capable of doing the job,” Sigogo said. “We were also having problems with the government when it was not considering but we think now the tide is changing. We’ve seen a number of our members being considered by a number of government departments, by some state owned enterprises, but that is not enough, we need more, particularly taking into account the demographics of the country.” Sigogo, who has been elected to serve as president of the BLA for the second time said he wants to ensure that there is transformation of the legal profession not only for BLA members but for the entire country. “The legal profession must be transformed and also members of the public must find a home in our legal profession as people who are going to defend their rights and also be the custodian of the Constitution,” he said. “To us it is not about us but the future of the legal fraternity. We believe our appointment to lead the organisation will assist in particular in the transformation agenda of the legal profession.” Sigogo said, together with the BLA executive committee, he wanted to ensure that black lawyers were given the recognition they deserve and trusted with serious cases. “We need to ensure that we show that as black lawyers we are able to execute our mandate as lawyers successfully as our white counterparts and clients, corporate clients particularly, should give our members instructions so that they can also prove to them that they can do it,” he said. Commenting on the misalignment between what law students are taught theoretically and what they have to practice when they get into the profession, Sigogo said while it was neither a crisis nor something new, things could be improved. “That gap was identified by the Legal Practice Act because now in terms of the act, students at universities are going to be required, for them to qualify for the degree, to do public service which is related to pro bono work. “This means they will be gaining experience while they are in university,” he said. “If the Higher Education Act can be amended and allow the legal profession to have a say in what is taught at university level, that will also help because we will be going to universities to advise them on what is required in terms of what people need to qualify as lawyers.” lillians@thenewage.co.za -LILLIAN SELAPISA