THE ANC Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) has brushed off rumours that it was aggrieved by President Cyril Ramaphosa’s axing of its treasurer and former cooperative governance minister Des van Rooyen. Briefing journalists yesterday in Ekurhuleni on the outcomes of the association’s national executive committee (NEC) meeting, MKMVA president Kebby Maphatsoe said the ANC’s military veterans accepted Ramaphosa’s Cabinet shake-up which saw Van Rooyen fired. Maphatsoe said Ramaphosa was well within his powers as head of state to use his “constitutional prerogative” to hire and fire ministers. “He was redeployed, he is still an MP, he will still serve in Parliament. We know that it is a prerogative of the president to appoint and remove ministers and deputy ministers. So we don’t have an issue as MKMVA. And many times, members have been redeployed.” Ramaphosa made several sweeping changes to the Cabinet, including the appointment of Mpumalanga premier David Mabuza as deputy president of the country and Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma as minister in the office of the Presidency. Regarding the faction of the MKMVA that recently accused Maphatsoe of backtracking on a letter written to ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule, arguing that Ramaphosa was unfit to hold office as he was a “novice”, Maphatsoe said the MKMVA distanced itself from the letter and its contents. “The MKMVA NEC discussed the unfortunate and unauthorised statements that some individual members of MKMVA made attacking President Ramaphosa. We unequivocally distance ourselves from such statements and severely censured the members in question. “The NWC and national office bearers have been instructed to further engage the individuals concerned,” Maphatsoe said. He commended former president Jacob Zuma’s attendance of an ANC elections workshop at the weekend, after his resignation as state president. “We reflected that although comrade Jacob Zuma disagreed with the decision of the NEC to recall him at this stage he accepted, as a disciplined member of the ANC, the decision and resigned. In doing so he behaved with honour and integrity and set a great revolutionary example to all of us. “The MKMVA NEC noted with respect how comrade Zuma conducted himself since his resignation. In this regard his attendance of the ANC national elections workshop this weekend at Birchwood Conference Centre deserves a special positive mention,” Maphatsoe said. He said the MKMVA would help bolster the ANC’s election campaign ahead of the next year’s general elections. “With regards to the ANC’s preparations for the upcoming national elections in 2019 MKMVA will be fully integrated into the election campaign structures of the ANC. “Senior NEC members of MKMVA will serve in the ANC’s national and provincial elections campaign structures and as an organisation we will spare no effort to work in the election campaign in order to secure a resounding victory for the ANC,” Maphatsoe said. -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@thenewage.co.za