THE Reserve Bank has cut interest rates by at least 25bps reducing it to 6.5%, from 6.75% on the back of lower inflation, injecting a juicy Easter long weekend bonanza for hard-pressed consumers. The inflation rate fell significantly in February to 4.0%, from 4.4% in January. The move was widely expected by the market given that key risk factors impacting on inflation had dissipated. The reality is that a rate cut, irrespective whether it was a quarter percentage point or not, will help consumers to save money by reducing interest payments on certain types of financing that are linked to prime or other rates. The rand also reacted positively to the announcement by the Reserve Bank on the rate move. “No discussion on 50bps cut. It was either a hold or 25bps cut. However, people must not be mislead that the Reserve Bank has started a journey of cutting rates. Every monetary policy committee (MPC) meeting analyses the data that is available at the time and take a decision based on that information,” Reserve Bank governor Lesetja Kganyago said. He said the risks to the inflation outlook had subsided somewhat since the earlier MPC meeting in January. “The MPC was of the view that, in light of the improved inflation outlook and the moderation in risks to the forecast, there was some room to provide further accommodation without undermining the inflation trajectory or the downward trend in inflation expectations,” Kganyago said. “Four members preferred a reduction while three members preferred an unchanged stance,” he said. He said the inflation outcomes in recent months remained well within the inflation target band of 3-6% and that the increase in value-added tax (VAT) places temporary upside pressure on inflation. “The affirmation of South Africa’s sovereign rating as investment grade and the change of the outlook from negative to stable by Moody’s has contributed to the recent rand resilience and a cut,” he said. Aubrey Mguni, economist and consumer expert, said this was a gift for the Easter holidays for deeply indebted consumers and now they can breathe a huge sigh of relief despite threats of VAT and the petrol price hike. “The timing is good. A couple of cents that were going to be squeezed by the fuel price and VAT, will now be balanced by reduced interest rates for the next two months before the next MPC meeting,” he said. Laura Campbell, senior economist of Econometrix, said the Reserve Bank’s decision to cut interest rates was expected given the fact that inflation has come in lower than expected most recently. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za