BUSINESSES that fail to pay their municipal accounts or illegally connect electricity to the city of Johannesburg’s main grid will be stripped of services, the city said. The city said this comes after the businesses were asked to pay for their services for a long time but failed to heed the call. More than 2000 accounts owe the city close to R1bn and instead of coming forward to make payment arrangements, some companies approach officials to illegally reconnect their services. City spokesperson Kgamanyane Maphologela said a joint action team between the city’s credit control officials, City Power, Johannesburg Water, Johannesburg metro police and inspectors had been formed to intensify a disconnection blitz. More than 80 officials have been assigned to take charge of the disconnections and reconnections and debt collectors have also been put in place to fast-track legal action. “We had a series of engagements with various businesses, government and residential consumers, weekly, monthly and quarterly, exhausting all possible legal collection avenues with a view to get them to settle their accounts. However, the ever increasing default rate of these customers has left us with no option but to act hard and discontinue their services,” Maphologela said. “We are undeterred in our quest to recover every single cent owed to the city.” Maphologela said in cases of exceptional circumstances where customers fail to meet the minimum requirements for reinstatement of services, such customers will be subjected to a process of financial assessment reviews, which includes but not limited to affordability tests. This may result to a different repayment arrangement plan at the discretion of the city. Debt collection and service delivery are the two greatest challenges facing local government, Maphologela said, adding that customers owe the city billions of rands and the figure keeps growing at an “alarming” rate. “The fact that not only household consumers but also businesses and the government itself are in arrears demonstrates that normal debt collection practices are inadequate and that the factors that underlie the reasons for and consequences of non-payment are not fully understood and have not been sufficiently addressed in a disciplined manner,” Maphologela said. news@thenewage.co.za -TNA Reporter