IN EVALUATING the 1.3% growth in South Africa’s economy, Cosatu says factors such as unemployment and income inequality were not sufficiently considered – as the GDP was but one indicator of development. The union said it had noted the conincreased growth the country after a difficult economic period. Cosatu said of the major pillars of the economy, which include the agriculture, mining and manufacturing sectors, they contribute to growth in the GDP – but not enough jobs. It said that mining only provided raw materials for the manufacturing sector. “These sectors are not creating jobs because of automation and mechanisation that has seen workers being replaced by machines,” Cosatu spokesperson Sizwe Pamla said. Cosatu further said that the reported growth was being accompanied by the introduction of new technology in the workplace – a process that does not factor in local economies and those workers people who are discarded by such developments. “The mining companies continue to submit Section 189 retrenchment notices, showing their intention to retrench more workers, despite many companies like Anglo American reporting massive profits,” Pamla said. Cosatu said the country needs an alternative developmental strategy as pushing economic growth on its own was not enough. Pamla said that economic growth is only a means to an end and in itself it is not enough to solve the triple crisis of unemployment, deepening poverty and inequality. “What matters to the workers is the quality of growth and not necessarily the quantity. We have experienced jobless growth before, which increased inequality and poverty. “We continue to call for politically governed redistribution of wealth and opportunities from the formal to the informal sectors of the economy.” Cosatu also said it was unwavering in its call for a broadened mandate of the South African Reserve Bank that would include economic growth and employment. “The Reserve Bank should consider reducing interest rates and the government should consider introducing concessional finance for productive investment.” hlonim@thenewage.co.za -HLONI MASHIGO