DA leader in Gauteng John Moody has warned party members against publicly sharing what should be subjected to internal party discussions on public platforms. Moody said although he believes party members should be free to fully express themselves without any hindrance, they should not be subjecting internal party matters to the public. He was reacting to a letter written by the party MPs Michael Cardo and Shadow Minister of Basic Education Gavin Davis which was widely circulated on numerous social media platforms. The party will hold its Federal Congress from April 7 and 8 at Tshwane Events centre. In their letter, Cardo and Davis are warning the delegates going to the party’s federal council against trying to steer it towards a particular outcome by those who claim to be progressive by adopting pro-ANC talks like radical economic transformation and demographic “representativity”. “Given South Africa’s history and the DA’s own intellectual heritage, it is hard to see how racial groupthink and racial identitarianism could be construed as “progressive”. They also warn of what they call the “bastardisation of the word “progressive” which according to them is deeply ironic. “After all, it was the DA’s progenitor, the Progressive Party, that used the word “progressive” to signal its opposition to the racial nationalism of the apartheid government. “Given South Africa’s history and the DA’s own intellectual heritage, it is hard to see how racial groupthink and racial identitarianism could be construed as “progressive”.” They said. Moody said there is no way the party cannot talk about transformation without reference to race. He said while he refers to himself as a liberal, he finds the talk of leadership without any racial composition as disingenuous. “Given the history of our country and where we come from, you cannot do anything without acknowledging that there was previously a race and gender injustice in this country” Moody said. Moody also warned against dismissing views held by other people’s views as ANC-ese as it diminishes their history and reality. DA Mp Makashule Gana agreed with Moody’s sentiments on race and gender representivity given the country’s history. “It doesn’t have to take a diversity tickbox sheet to see that when am with Khume Ramulifho Bongani Baloyi Kingsol Chabalala Lebo More representing the DA that there is no diversity, especially for us as the DA.”Gana said in a letter published in City Press “Thus over and above the other components of diversity, in my eyes, if it does not include race and gender it is not diverse enough, our history and context demands as much.” Attempts to get a comment from Gavin Davis were unsuccessful as his cellphone went unanswered. -TNA Reporter