The National Funeral Practitioners Association of South Africa (Nafupa-SA) will confer its appreciation award on former President Jacob Zuma for his efforts in making South Africa a better country. The association, along with 24 organisations from KwaZulu-Natal and the rest of the country, will on Thursday honour Zuma for what it said he has done for South Africa and black businesses. The event will be held at the Olive Convention Centre in Durban. Zuma reluctantly stepped down from his post as a president last month after he was instructed by the ANC National Executive Committee (NEC) to do so. Nafupa-SA said it was under Zuma’s leadership that government allocated 30% of its work to black business, even though that was still a small percentage. Nafupa-SA president Muzi Hlengwa said this was work in progress. Hlengwa said: “Every South African, especially black business people, will tell you how life improved under Mr Zuma’s time in the Presidency”. “There has been a lot of infrastructure development in the country, not only in KZN, as many want us to believe.” Hlengwa said, as people in the funeral sector, Nafupa-SA knew first-hand how Aids used to kill many South Africans but since Zuma became the president, Aids-related deaths had gone down. “I am in the funeral sector. I know how many people used to be buried daily as a result of Aids. Now that has decreased since the government under Zuma introduced free ARVs for anyone living with the disease.” “It was under Zuma that we saw malls being built all over our townships and rural areas and he is the first president to advocate for the expropriation of land without compensation.” He said the organisation would have liked to see Zuma completing his term. Hlengwa said, like everyone else, Zuma had his shortcomings and the commission on the investigation of state capture would have to do its work and investigating all wrongs. Nafupa-SA has previously called for a ban on white and Indian-owned companies from entering townships to conduct funeral services. -TNA Reporter