SOUTH Africans must work together to advance human rights, Deputy President David Mabuza said yesterday. He was addressing thousands of people at the Human Rights Day commemoration service, which was held at the George Thabe Stadium in Sharpeville. The service was to honour those who were shot and killed by apartheid police during an anti-pass law march in the area in 1960. Mabuza reminded South African citizens that the freedom they were enjoying today was because of people who put their lives on the line to fight for justice and democracy. “Twenty-three years after democracy we still fail to protect our children who continue to die in undignified ways. “Five children in Soshanguve recently died when an overhead light fell on them. “There are still children falling into pit toilets and dying in 2018,” Mabuza said. The Minister of Arts and Culture, Nathi Mthethwa, said they were promoting a culture of dignity and human rights as South Africans were celebrating the lives of Nelson Mandela and Albertina Sisulu. “Sharpeville is the cradle of human rights. Many died in defiance of the apartheid government. They fought for our rights and democracy. They fell so that all of us here today could rise.” Mabuza lashed out at racism that was almost daily rearing its ugly head more than 20 years after democracy. “It’s a problem that after many died fighting against racism it still remains a big problem in the country. “Let us embrace the ethos of Batho Pele (people first) and Thuma Mina (send me) in our fight to create a better South Africa.” Mabuza asked people to come together to create safe communities, especially for women and children to be able to walk free at night without the fear of being raped or assaulted. He asked that people care for each other and that children must be cared for when they go to school. He also called for the protection of people living with albinism who were targets of certain unscrupulous people who were killing them. “South African men must help in protecting women and children.” Another speaker, Jonas Ben Sibanyoni from the Human Rights Commission, said there had been many strides made to celebrate human rights but some people had not enjoyed the pleasure of these rights because other people’s rights continued to be violated. “We are all aware of the Life Esidimeni case, which robbed people of their dignity and how women and children are continuously abused.” Human rights needed to be a reality, he said. A local resident, Chantel Lebotse said she was happy that she witnessed the celebrations yesterday. “My peers are not interested in matters of history but I am glad I came to learn more about my history and the bravery of the people who fought for my freedom as a young black person.” sisandam@thenewage.co.za