PUBLIC transport users in Gauteng now have the province in the palm of their hands. Gauteng MEC for roads and transport Ismail Vadi launched the Gauteng on the Move app yesterday. The app will provide commuters with real time public transit information, timetables and fares for Gauteng-based public transport operators. These include minibus taxi services, Metrobus, A re Yeng, Rea Vaya, Metrorail, Gautrain, Gautrain bus services and Tshwane bus services as well as Johannesburg city sightseeing bus. The app will allow users to plan their journeys with the option to select desired transport modes, travel times and criteria specific to travel modes like shortest versus cheapest trip. Vadi said the provincial department recognised the need for smart technology and intelligent transport systems as inherent contributors to the development of the transport system. “We are seeing the power of technological innovation that is reshaping public transport services, marketing and consumption,” Vadi said. “There’s no doubt that global technological changes are sparking a revolution in the transport sector and we must adopt and adapt to these changes. “The app fits into the province’s modernisation agenda, providing commuters with real-time and point-to-point information when moving to a desired location,” he said. Vadi said that the province will use innovation, research and development emanating from the Fourth Industrial Revolution to promote a smart province to improve efficiency and access to transport services. “This will be pursued through strategic investments in ICT infrastructure. The government has invested time, effort and resources into the development of this journey planner that will allow commuters to connect to major transport modes,” he said. Prince Skhosana, representing the National Taxi Alliance, said they welcomed the app however, they want their house in order. “The government must assist with training of our drivers. After training, drivers must get their certificates so they know how to comply. That will enhance them on the knowledge of smart phones,” Skhosana said. Student Sonto Mbatha from KZN said she was excited about the app. “I am not familiar with Gauteng and the app will help me plan my trip ahead,” Mbatha said. ntombin@thenewage.co.za -NTOMBI NKOSI