ECONOMIC growth appears to have bounced back, with the gross domestic product (GDP) rebounding strongly in the fourth quarter of last year on the back of strong recoveries in agriculture, which increased output by 37.5%, lifting the hopes of the more than five million unemployed that the job market could improve. The economy grew a whopping 3.1% in the fourth quarter, from 2% previously – a strong improvement after three years of growth below 2%. Most economists’ expectation were for GDP to post a pedestrian 0.7% growth. The latest data has boosted the chances of avoiding a credit rating downgrade. Other sectors which contributed positively to GDP growth include trade, catering and accommodation, followed by manufacturing, finance, real estate and business services. The rand reacted positively yesterday, lifting immediately after the announcement to R11.81/$, having opened trading at R11.85/$. “The February budget will see GDP growth increase as key policy matters are finalised, and there is no doubt that GDP growth forecasts will be revised upwards,” corporate treasury manager at Peregrine Treasury Solutions, Bianca Botes, said. Isaac Matshego, senior economist at Nedbank, said the agricultural sector was the main driver of growth. “Overall, the fourth quarter GDP data represents a good number and shows strong momentum.” “The prospects for job creation have improved, and we hope private sector investment also picks up,” he said. However, Matshego said a fly in the ointment was the water crisis in the Western Cape. “Western Cape is significant for the country’s GDP growth given their fruit and wine industries, which are major contributors to the economy and exports. If the water crisis is not going to be solved soon, that posed a serious threat into the agricultural sector,” he said. Nedbank’s economic unit said the domestic economic outlook had improved in recent weeks and that President Cyril Ramaphosa had moved fast to address the country’s most pressing concerns, tackling corruption head on and promising to restore good governance and fiscal discipline throughout the public sector. Economist Mandla Maleka said the numbers indicated that GDP was already accelerating before the ANC elective conference last December. “It is clear that 2017 ended on a high note and 2018 started well. “Lower inflation could lift consumption-led growth. Interest rates could be lowered as well as a result of benign inflation expectation, as a result, giving much needed support to consumption spending which accounts over 60% of total consumption expenditure in the economy,” Maleka said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za