FOLLOWING the Eshowe riots late last week, the MEC for economic development, tourism and environmental affairs, Sihle Zikalala, has called for the establishment of a forum to deal with issues that could potentially lead to violent conflict. Zikalala made the call after a meeting in Eshowe with the local community, traditional leaders, municipal officials and local farmers. The meeting was called to defuse the conflict that was sparked by the reported killing of a local man, Siphamandla Xulu, 29, by security guards hired by farmers to patrol their area. The angry community retaliated by torching two farms, and burning and vandalising a farmhouse on one of the sugarcane farms in the area. They also blocked the R66 which connects Eshowe with northern KZN towns like Ulundi and Vryheid. Calling for calm, Zikalala said constant dialogue between the community and farmers could help prevent future incidents like this one. “We believe that some of these incidents are caused by a lack of proper communication and building of a sustained relationship between the community and the farmers. “They have got nothing to do with expropriation of land but it is about the reported killing of a person who was found on a farm.” The first meeting between these structures is billed for tomorrow where traditional leaders will assume a leading role in reconciling the warring sides. He also dispelled as false, rumours that the burning down of three farms in the area was connected to the community demanding land. Zikalala said that the fires were linked to community anger at the abuse of workers by farmers in the area. He called on police to investigate Xulu’s killing and ensure that justice was done to restore the people’s faith in the police. Zikalala said the police had to investigate cases where farmers have been accused of ill-treating local residents. He said a farmer reportedly ran over a schoolboy and this case was not investigated. “Part of what we think compromises the relationship is when incidents of such nature happen and get reported but are not processed to conclusion.” Zikalala and his delegation which included the speaker of Mlalazi, Thulani Dlamini, also visited the Xulu family and offered his condolences. A 21-year-old security guard accused of shooting him appeared in court on Friday where his charge was read to him but he did not plead. sihlem@thenewage.co.za -SIHLE MAVUSO