SAA is taking urgent steps to address issues raised by the auditor-general’s office in its 2016-17 audit report, and remains optimistic about the airline’s future, the airline said yesterday. “The board has noted and accepted the auditor-general’s report,” CEO Vuyani Jarana said. “The majority of the airline’s operations are sound, and we are building on this to ensure we break the loss-making cycle and transform the airline into a viable and sustainable entity. “The board has developed and approved a clear strategy and five-year plan to turn the airline around and we are working closely with the board and the shareholder to ensure we succeed.” SAA has had many previous turnaround strategies which have not been implemented. “This time it is different. We believe the vision outlined by the board is correct and are committed to ensuring it is put into practice.” Jarana said what was needed was a clean break with the past and a new approach to the future. “We are acting with urgency to ensure the viability and sustainability of this crucial national asset.” Jarana said the report, released last week, covered the financial year ending March 2017 and “provided a fresh pair of eyes. The AG has given us a comprehensive diagnosis into key areas of our business and this has provided deep insights which will contribute to a fit for purpose group of businesses”. The AG’s report forms part of SAA’s integrated report along with financial results for FY2016-17, which are due to be announced later this month. The airline has incurred a net loss of R5.5bn, up from R1.4bn the year before and expects that its financial situation will not be much different for the full year 2017-18. “However, a number of significant steps have already been taken as part of the turnaround strategy, with the clear aim of taking SAA to profitability in the medium-term,” SAA said. Jarana said the five-year plan and strategy required support and funding by the shareholder (government) which was evaluating the appropriate terms for such support. Key steps already taken included: • Improving governance by strengthening the board and its structures. • Injecting R10bn into SAA to improve its balance sheet. • Addressing the leadership vacuum. • Bringing in a depth of aviation skills by hiring the chief restructuring officer. • Implementing key market-facing initiatives aimed at stopping ongoing losses. Jarana said work had been done on optimising the domestic, regional and international route networks. “The London route will be served by an upgraded product and reduced to a single daily service. “These network changes are necessary as SAA’s route network remains under intense scrutiny with clear defined minimum profit margin target at route and network level.” The R10bn from the Treasury had helped restructure the balance sheet and improve SAA’s equity position. “However, it is important to note that SAA has never been properly capitalised,” Jarana said. “Notwithstanding all the financial challenges facing SAA, it remains a wellrecognised and respected brand in the aviation industry. We have a great reputation and track record for passenger safety and our on-time performance is among the best in the aviation industry, as well as numerous air travel recognition awards.” -TNA REPORTER|businessnews@thenewage.co.za