Mining Forum of South Africa is planning to stop Sibanye-Stillwater‘s proposed R5.1 Billion takeover of global platinum giant Lonmin. The forum accuses Lonmin of not meeting its obligations to communities. According to the Forum, in February, they approached the North West High Court asking it to prevent Lonmin from disposing or transferring its rights at the Marikana operations until it had implemented its obligation in terms of the forum’s Social and Labour Plan (SLP) which details how mining companies are intending to share some of the benefits that flow from mining in the area. The benefits include houses, water, upgrading of schools and roads around the areas where the mines operate. According to Mining Forum President Blessing Ramoba, they want the high court to rule that Minister of Mineral Resources acted in breach of the obligation imposed by the Minerals and Petroleum Resources Development Act by refusing to take action against Lonmin for its failure to implement the SLP between 2012 and 2017. Ramoba said they also want the court to compel the minister to suspend Lonmin’s mining license at its Marikana operations until it complies with SLP obligations between 2014 and 2018. “We have essentially brought an application to force the department to carry out its constitutional duties.” He said in August 2017, the department ordered Lonmin to rectify its non-compliance with the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA) after it was found by the audit committee that it had failed to meet its SLP commitments between 2014 and 2017. Department of Mineral Resources said it had conducted the audit, which showed that Lonmin had not complied with commitments made in 2014. This is two years after 44 mine workers were killed 4 miners were killed. The company is currently undergoing some financial constraints but has committed to honouring all commitments it made to communities. “The board of Lonmin supports the offer by Sibanye-Stillwater because it believes that a combination of Sibanye-Stillwater and Lonmin creates a larger and more resilient company with greater geographical and commodity diversification, and it is better able to withstand short-term commodity price and foreign exchange volatility. This is in the best interest of all the stakeholders,” Lonmin said in a statement. Last year, the Department of Mineral Resources issued Section 93 Compliance to Lonmin which give the department a right to enforce compliance with the act by ordering mines to cease operations if a company does not comply. -TNA Reporter 