THE Komape family, with the support of social justice organisation Section27, is expected to appeal the judgment handed down by the Polokwane High Court yesterday, dismissing the family’s claim for damages. “Section27 is still studying the judgment but have taken further instructions from the Komape family in respect of this, we anticipate that we will be appealing the damages aspect of the judgment in the Supreme Court of Appeal,” spokesperson Nomatter Ndebele said. The family were dealt a blow when their R3m claim for grief and trauma was rejected following the death of their five-year-old son Michael Komape in 2014. Judge Gerrit Muller instead ordered that the Basic Education Department should pay R12000 for future psychological treatment for two of the Komape family’s youngest children. Muller also ordered that the department provide the court with a list of schools that still use pit latrines and build proper toilets. This should be done by July 31. Ndebele said the Komape family had been denied justice. She said the family had mixed emotions about the judgment. Although Section27 was disappointed by the judgment, Ndebele said they were pleased that the judge ordered an interdict to make sure that the Department of Education provided the court with a list of schools that still use pit latrines and build proper toilets. “On the other hand, we are disappointed that the court ignored the Komape’s pain, shock and horror that they have been through all these years with their son falling in a pit toilet, nothing was said about that and we were hoping that Life Esidimeni set precedents,” she said. Last month Lumka Mketwa, also five, fell and drowned in a pit toilet at Luna Primary School in Bizana in the Eastern Cape. This second incident in four years prompted President Cyril Ramphosa to call on Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga to compile an audit within three months of schools that needed to have pit toilets demolished. Where schools had Grade R pupils, the audit should establish if there were toilets that are fit for smaller pupils. The minister said the information was already there but needed to be verified and she anticipated it would take less than three months. Motshekga said one of their biggest challenges, which affected half of their schools, was that old pit toilets remained on site despite the construction of alternative ablution facilities. The department spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said: “As the department we continue to sympathise with the family of Michael Komape for the terrible loss they have suffered and commit to comply with the order of the high court and ensure the delivery of suitable sanitation infrastructure in all of our schools across the country.” Mhlanga said the judgment fell directly in line with the directive from the president which goes even further than the judgment to include all schools across the entire country, not just in Limpopo. “Work in this regard is already under way,” he said. -LILLIAN SELAPISA AND SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE|lillians@thenewage.co.za