STEVE Komphela sounds resigned to the possibility of his contract with Kaizer Chiefs not being renewed at the end of the season. The Chiefs coach is in the final three months of his three-year contract but, following the club’s announcement of planning an “overhaul” at the end of current campaign, chances of him staying at the club beyond this season look extremely slim. In his three-year stay at the club, Komphela is yet to deliver a title and has had an on-off relationship with most of the club’s supporters who now demand he vacate his office. With the club announcing last week, following their 3-0 defeat to Chippa United at home, that changes are imminent, it seems Komphela is operating on borrowed time. Asked for clarity following their 1-0 victory over Platinum Stars on Sunday whether there have been any negotiations to renew his extension, Komphela remained tight-lipped. “I don’t deal with such things. One thing with coaches, you try not to deal with such stuff yourself because, in any contractual matter, there’s much discussion,” Komphela said. “A term is a term and it’s clear when they say to you, ‘You’re state president, you serve four years’ and a football contract is just clear. “As professionals, you just have to keep doing your job in a manner and every second counts. “When you’re a man who believes in process, you don’t consider your personal stance but you work within a particular system that wants to achieve a particular objective. “So, I haven’t received any information from whoever handles my stuff and I wouldn’t know.” With the Nedbank Cup the only trophy Chiefs can win this season, Komphela can still leave on a relatively high note if he can deliver the title to Naturena before vacating his position. “Any contract with terms that are clear talks to that (how a contract is terminated). There are stages when things happen and they happen sometimes in a way that you know or don’t know. “But you have to handle it yourself to understand the details.” Chiefs will meet Free State Stars in the semifinal on Saturday at Moses Mabhida stadium in Durban with the pressure of reaching the final falling directly on a coach under stress to succeed. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thewage.co.za