Winnie Madikizela-Mandela will be remembered as a revolutionary black leader in perpetual
combat with white power. “No amount of brutality meted out to me and my people will change the course of history.” Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, who passed away on Monday, never once knelt at the boot of white supremacy, always maintaining the proud carriage of supreme purpose. She said: “There is nothing the government has not done to me. There isn’t any pain I have not known.” Speaking at the funeral of young singer Lebo Mathosa, she said: “All my life, I have been hijacked.” Despite a total onslaught against her person, family, and people, she never submitted to white power or interests. The people appointed mother of black defiance and black dignity in South Africa, was an ever-nursing mother of the people, nourishing black liberation on a firm breast of revolutionary love. The story of Madikizela-Mandela is one of endless love and dedication too authentic, too
vast and too precious to ever be captured in the spin-doctored show and tell of selfies and
camera lenses – or in the self-celebratory craft of public relations. Her story cannot ever be
told in any column of any newspaper. Sadly, the fullness of her influence is not likely to find adequate caption in the history book of the ANC, whose male-dominated leadership fails to accord ample accolade to women in the movement. Her epic contribution will certainly not be told on the lips of former president Thabo Mbeki who appears to be eternally emasculated and enfeebled by the endogenous politics of the potency of this true freedom fighter. Madikizela-Mandela’s deep connectivity with the people of South Africa is what Mbeki longed for most, never enjoyed and will never attain, for the love of the people will always
linger beyond the short political grip of former president Mbeki. In an in-depth interview in 2001, with Prof Sipho Seepe, Rehana Rossouw and Drew Forest, Madikizela-Mandela described herself as “an ordinary social worker” and as a “politician
by accident”. “I am not a singular person or product. I am not a product of a clique. I am not a media
product,” she said. “I am a product of the masses of this country. I am just me.” The true story of Winnie Mandela can only be told by the people of South Africa themselves
– particularly by those in the deepest, most vulnerable pits of poverty and protest, where she served so often, as a support and shield. This week a Sowetan, Prudence Matima, shared the following story about her: “In 1976
August, I was coming from my aunt’s house in Phefeni. Mam’ Winnie was alone surrounded
by a group of soldiers with R4 assault rifles pointed at her, the white soldiers were swearing
at her, calling her a ‘kaffir hoer’ “Six bleeding schoolchildren, in school uniform, who were shot by the soldiers, were lying on the ground, grimacing in pain. Winnie picked up the kids, four boys, and two girls, loaded them into her VW Beetle while yelling ‘shoot me, shoot me’.” A Cape Town #FeesMustFall student activist recalled this week how in 2015, when police were shooting at students, the Mother of the Nation stood in front of the protest and told the police to continue shooting and they stopped. “Once again you had saved us,” he said, paying tribute to Madikizela-Mandela. Irvin Jim, the general secretary of the National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa, wrote this week: “Mama Winnie was shaped by concrete positions. She faced the brutality of the racist regime and all her strategies and tactics to fight the regime were shaped by the actual brutality of that regime.” Madikizela-Mandela never abandoned her revolutionary principles and stood fearlessly on the side of her principals – the people – before her political principals, including former
president Mbeki, condemning his stance on HIV-Aids as a betrayal of the people. In the post-apartheid era, MadikizelaMandela was the revolutionary consciousness that troubled the architecture of reconciliation without justice. She never sought refuge in the
malady of the Rainbow Nation, for her voice, was never able to hold a moderate melody. She did not cradle the contagious mass hysteria for reconciliation, or puff up white privilege and entitlement, like many of her contemporaries. She criticised the politics of compromise which did not tend to the stillborn emancipation of black South Africans. For many, even in her own party, her tenacious black consciousness was troublesome. Especially for those who swiftly exchanged their radical zeal for a seat of privilege in the
splendour of the Stellenbosch Shebeen. She never feared white supremacy and white power, although white supremacy and white power feared her. She was never interested in the pander of white praise or the photo frame of whiteness. The hateful headlines and editorials in mainstream media, on the death of this great
revolutionary leader was very telling. Andile Mngxitama, president of Black First, Land First (BLF) described such as the mark of a great revolutionary – loved by her people, hated by the enemy. But in the end, Madikizela-Mandela cannot be diminished by the media or by those political
leaders dwarfed by her greatness. She will be mourned and commemorated by black people worldwide. In a beautiful tribute, the Economic Freedom Fighters said: “Mama Winnie Mandela was the stone that the builders rejected. She is the first black female president South Africa was deprived of.” I agree. Madikizela-Mandela will forever be a symbol of black strength and revolutionary fortitude in South Africa, along with leaders such as Chris Hani, Steve Biko, and Robert Sobukwe. She is an icon of black liberation, beyond the ANC. She is the eternal mother of a liberated
Azania that has yet to be birthed. Rest in peace Ma Winnie, knowing that we will not surrender to yet another new dawn of
white wishes which continue to suspend black liberation. Aluta Continua. Kim Heller is a writer and political commentator