The Democratic Alliance (DA) has called on the Premier Soccer League (PSL) to provide answers as to why security measures failed to prevent unruly soccer fans from invading the Moses Mabhida soccer pitch on Saturday. The DA said stadium management, football marshalls, Premier Soccer League (PSL) leadership and the South Africa police service (SAPS) need to provide answers on the growing culture of violence that seems to have taken root in the country’s premier soccer division. The party was responding to the vandalism of the Durban’s world cup stadium on Saturday during a Nedbank Cup Semi Final match between Kaizer Chiefs and Free State Stars. Kaizer Chiefs fans rampaged the stadium, burned seats, broke broadcasting equipment and assaulted security officials after the team lost to Stars, 2-0. DA Shadow Minister of Sports and Recreation Tsepo Mhlongo said he will write to the Portfolio Committee Chairperson on Sports, Beauty Dlulane, asking her to summon the Premier Soccer League (PSL) leadership to account for the growing culture of violence that seems to have taken root in the PSL. “The PSL must provide concrete plans on interventions to stop violence at football matches and ensure the safety of spectators and officials. “It is not acceptable that a family spectator sport regularly degenerates to violence that threatens the well-being of everyone, because the PSL fails to take stern action against hooligans who perpetuate violence,” Mhlongo said. Mhlongo said the hooliganism comes only weeks after the dropping of the PSL Commission of Inquiry into crowd safety by Minister Tokozile Xasa. “The events at Moses Mabhida shows that this was an ill-informed decision that proves that crowd safety at major sporting events is not a priority for the government,” he said. Meanwhile, PSL Chairperson Irvin Khoza, who is also the owner of Orlando Pirates will later today address a press briefing about the vandalism of the stadium. Pirates were last week also found guilty of the vandalism of Loftus Versveld Stadium in 2017 during the game they lost by 6-1 to Mamelodi Sundowns. They were ordered to play one game this season behind closed doors. -TNA Reporter