It remains to be seen whether ANC members of the provincial legislature (MPLs) in the North West will heed the party’s instruction from Luthuli House not to support a motion of no confidence against Premier Supra Mahumapelo. Mahumapelo will on Tuesday face a motion of no confidence in his leadership, brought forward by the EFF in March. ANC MPL and SACP provincial chairperson Madoda Sambatha had previously called on the ANC leadership to immediately remove the North West premier, as the province had not performed well under his leadership The EFF approached the courts on Friday, seeking to overturn Speaker Susanne Dantjie’s decision to have voting on the motion to be done through an open vote. The party requested the motion after several allegations linking Mahumapelo to the controversial Gupta family emerged. Provincial health head of department Thabo Lekalakala admitted that the department gave Gupta-linked company Midiosa a R30 million advance on a mobile health facility and also paid a further R108 million for a single mobile clinic. Earlier this year, the Hawks raided the provincial government offices where several documents were seized. Last week, ANC Youth League President Collin Maine revealed that he was introduced to the controversial family by Mahumapelo and not former President Jacob Zuma, as it was widely believed. The ANC in the province expressed its full confidence in Mahumapelo’s leadership. The party also said it was not worried about the motion as it was confident it would be defeated. “We as the ANC are not disturbed by the tabling of this motion of no confidence because it indicates that our democracy has indeed matured. We are confident that our MPLs, as deployees of the ANC, will vote against such a motion against our democratically elected premier of Bokone Bophirima,” the ANC said in a statement. The party said there was no need to support the EFF motion as the party had the ability to use internal processes to resolve all disagreements. “The ANC has got its own way of doing things and if the movement has got concerns about its deployee, we will follow our own internal processes to address such concerns.” -TNA Reporter