A SMALL village community in the Eastern Cape is sitting on trillions of rands worth of titanium mineral and has been fending off mining companies wanting to move in for the past 11 years. Since 2007, the community of Xolobeni, through protest and litigation, fiercely resisted the granting of a mining licence to Australian company Mineral Commodities (MRC) by the government. Although MRC subsequently withdrew its licence in 2016, attempts by others, including local companies, to mine the land have continued. Yesterday, an application brought by the community against the Minister of Mineral Resources was heard by the North Gauteng High Court. Sbusiso Mqadi, the chairperson of a committee elected by the community to lead the resistence, Amadiba Crisis Committee, said they were not deterred by economic promises made by the mining companies. “We do not want our land to be mined. Most of our people did not go to Johannesburg to find jobs, they are using the land to keep their households going, they are self employed. They are ploughing sweet potatoes and we have the ecotourism project, which means we have a beautiful land for tourists,” he said. He went on to say that there were also health and environmental concerns. “Mining will contaminate streams from which our livestock drink water,” Mqadi said. While the people of Xolobeni have promised to take their fight all the way to the highest court, should they fail now, the mining charter is likely to stall if the court rules that mining companies’ rights will not be awarded before the issue of consent and compensation is dealt with. The community is asking a court to order both the government and mining companies to consult with them and individuals affected by any decision and that if a mining company wants to mine in or near a community, residents are  entitled to information about how it has attempted to agree on compensation with affected communities. Representing the community, advocate Ngcukaitobi said there was no reason why mining communities should not be entitled to say “No” because the Constitution is meant to transform their rights. “Mining communities have no intention to sterilise mining activities but want to know why the government and mining companies kept them in the dark about their rights for so long. “Communities have never been taken seriously and neither the government nor the mining companies ever shared their rights in a transparent manner,” he said. He said it was wrong for the power to be vested with local chiefs and the government. “My clients are claiming entitlement to the land, not minerals. Government approval on mining rights is in breach of the customary law, which is central to the Bill of Rights,” he said. Human rights attorney Richard Spoor said the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act is unconstitutional. “It is a worst practice ever, to lock-out communities in consultation processes. Is a profit a sufficient reason to relocate communities and for them to lose their land?” Spoor said. He said the economy needed to be balanced by not only focusing on profits while undermining communities in the process. “No mining should proceed without the permission of a concerned community. The government is wrong to provide mining rights before any compensation,” he said. Pressure groups attending the hearing yesterday said communities wanted to be part of designing the charter, not to rubber stamp it. “The charter must reflect what the community wants.” Mishack Mbangula, an advocate of transformation, said Minister Gwede Mantashe’s consultation process engaging with the community was just a waste of resources because the minister would have already agreed with captains of industry. The charter they want is already there. “Both mining companies and the government did not follow a court order that said mining communities must be party to formulate the charter,” he said. Arguments continue today. ntombin@thenewage.co.za -BERNARD SATHEKGE AND NTOMBI NKOSI