THE Independent Police Investigative Directorate (Ipid) is investigating the death of a 16-year-old boy in Taung, North West who was allegedly shot by a police official on Monday evening during the ongoing violent protests. Protests flared up in several parts of the province last week with protesters calling for the resignation of Premier Supra Mahumapelo. Police spokesperson Sabata Mokgwabone said they were still investigating as the circumstances around the teenager’s death were unclear. He said there had been no arrests in Taung. “We arrested 11 suspects in Christiana on Monday for possession of stolen goods which were looted from shops in the area. Some arrests were also made in Stella yesterday morning,” he said. Meanwhile, the chairperson of the Ethiopian community in Mahikeng, Terefe Tesfaye Demmissie, said they lost everything they had worked for after residents looted and destroyed their properties last week. Demmissie has appealed to donors including international bodies like Red Cross and the United Nations to come to their rescue. More than 500 families have been accommodated at a shelter owned by the International Scouts Association in Mahikeng. “We have nothing left. The protesters did not give us a chance and none of our 500 shops was spared the damage,” Demmissie said. “When we tried to run to our church in Ramosadi village where we usually get shelter, we found it was worse of than our shops. All our instruments, chairs and everything inside was taken, it was vandalised,” he said. Terefe said young children and pregnant women had been left traumatised. “We thank the Scouts Association for opening their doors for us but not everyone is accommodated there. Still, we don’t have enough blankets, no warm water. Our appeal is for someone to hear our cries and come to our rescue,” he said. Social development MEC Hoffman Galeng thanked nongovernmental organisations that had assisted foreign business owners since the protests started in Mahikeng. He said his department had so far cooked meals, bought bottled water, mattresses and 484 blankets for the 650 foreign nationals accommodated in various places of safety in Mahikeng. “We will together with religious leaders, continue to provide the affected foreign nationals with trauma counselling. We make a call to community members, businesses and NPOs to come on board and lend a hand in addressing the plight of these foreign nationals,” he said. The North West unrest come as the provincial department of health battles to function as nurses in the province have been on strike for weeks. The province has since deployed health practitioners from the South African Defence Force to provide healthcare in clinics and hospitals. The health MEC, Dr Magome Masike, said the province has welcomed the arrival of military medics at Mafikeng Hospital because of “unprecedented pressure” on the provincial healthcare system. There have been disruptions in a number of health facilities and an outbreak of community protests last week further contributed to problems for the provincial health department. Health Minister Aaron Motsoaledi said the army had already delivered 21 babies, including six by caesarean section in the first 24 hours of their deployment. The National Education, Health and Allied Workers’ Union (Nehawu) vowed to intensify the strike action because of the “intransigence and heightened levels of arrogance” displayed by the provincial government. “Instead of engaging the union on the current impasse, they elected to engage us through the media, thus prolonging the strike unnecessarily,” the union said. “Our members and workers are highly agitated by the way the provincial government has handled their demands and the subsequent strike. “Their actions prove beyond reasonable doubt that they do not care about workers nor do they care about the millions who rely on government services,” the union said. elfast@thenewage.co.za -ELFAS TORERAI AND KUTULLO MADISHA