The Council for the Advancement of the SA Constitution (Casac) has accused the Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane of deliberately changing the recommendations on the Free State Vrede dairy farm report. Mkhwebane released the report into the Dairy farm this year, which was referred to as a ‘whitewash’ for its failure to link then Free State Premier Ace Magashule to the project saga. A number of people were arrested following a raid by the Hawks at the Gupta compound and the Premier’s offices in the Free State. Casac’s Executive secretary, Lawson Naidoo says that Mkhwebane did all in her power to protect Magashule from being implicated in the scandal. “It does seem that Busisiwe Mkhwebane has gone out of her way to protect the highly connected political individual in the course of this investigation,” he said. The council has also made a revelation that following their application to seek more information regarding the report which they filed in February wherein they accessed more records on the investigation. “It now transpires that a provisional report into this matter had been conducted and concluded by Adv Thuli Madonsela while she was still the public protector”, he said. Naidoo said that two things were now clear, firstly, Busisiwe Mkhwebane makes no reference to the provisional report in her own report that was published earlier this year. “And secondly, having gone through that provisional report, it is quite clear that Mkhwebane has watered down a number of recommendations and aspects of the remedial actions that Adv Thuli Madonsela had  proposed, which included further investigations into the involvement of Ace Magashule, Mosebenzi Zwane as well as the disciplinary action to be taken against head of the Department of Agriculture in the Free State Mr Thabethe. none of those was done,” he said. Naidoo further said that following the dissatisfaction on her report, Mkhwebane has recently announced that she would now probe Magashule’s involvement in the matter.  He added that the council also want Mkhwebane to give answers “why she changed those reports and it does seem quite clear that is was an attempt to protect certain individuals.