Funeral Industry Reformed Association (FIRA) chairman Johan Rousseau on Tuesday said Pick n Pay is misleading the public on a reported Pretoria facility that it is alleged to share a food storage facility, with a mortuary in the same building. This comes after a journalist this week disclosed how Pick n Pay shares a building with a morgue, only separated by about 400 metres. Pick n Pay has denied the reports. “We reported this matter to the authorities on 9 January this year and only after the journalist’s report in April, we received a response – they asked for addresses. And I think that is totally irresponsible,” Rousseau said. Rousseau said the association had been pleading with government to address the laws in the industry. “We believe that the Tshwane municipality is being misled by Pick n Pay. Unfortunately, I would like to challenge Pick n Pay on any platform. We were at the scene and now they are coming with excuses that it was for a garage. I would like to see any garage in South Africa selling 2.5kg of mealie meal, its hogwash.” The food allegedly stored in the facility included soft drinks, cooking oil and mealie meal. Rousseau said there are even more of these funeral parlours operating in townships next to houses and eating facilities. He said that during their visit to the storeroom, they saw children as young as seven walking around in the facility and their parents had confirmed that they had seen  ‘deceased’ people being loaded and offloaded at the very same facility. In its earlier statement on Monday, Pick n Pay said that that the mentioned storage facility was not utilised by it, but by a garage. Speaking to Power FM on Tuesday, Jonathan Ackerman, Customer Director at Pick n Pay Stores said that 90% of their stock was stored in their stores. However he said that if they are wrong in this case, “we will absolutely handle the situation extremely firmly, the franchisee could lose his business if he had told us something that is not true.” Pick n Pay reiterated that the store franchisee told them that the storeroom was for a garage store next door and that “the stock belongs to the garage store.” Ackerman also said that the storage unit was in a separate building next door, separate to the mortuary. -TNA Reporter