AFTER Mamelodi Sundowns’ PSL clash against Golden Arrows last night, there are three matches left for Downs and Orlando Pirates in the run-up to the league title that will determine the winners. Sundowns, led by Sibusiso Vilakazi, Percy Tau and Themba Zwane, are left with a tricky away fixture to Maritzburg United, then a home clash against relegation-threatened Ajax Cape Town before finishing the season away to Bloemfontein Celtic. Pirates, who recently beat AmaZulu 2-0, will host struggling Bidvest Wits at Orlando Stadium before making the trip to Cape Town to face Benni McCarthy’s Cape Town City – with their last clash at Orlando Stadium against Free State Stars. Based on the league standings, Sundowns are the ones with the easier three fixtures, even though places on the log make matches difficult to call. Maritzburg United under Fadlu Davids are eyeing a third place – above Kaizer Chiefs – and for Davids, that will be a massive achievement. One of the matches they will have to win will be against Sundowns and with this clash coming after the Nedbank Cup, the Team of Choice will not want to lose to Sundowns, especially since both matches are at home. Ajax too, with Yannick Zakri, a Sundowns striker on loan at the Urban Warriors, are also a tricky proposition, considering their relegation fight. Ajax are in muddy waters as they could lose the four points earned in the win against Pirates and the draw with Polokwane City when they fielded Tendai Ndoro – even though Pirates and City protested. That now forces Muhsin Ertugral’s Ajax side to double their efforts to move further away from bottom side Platinum Stars. The last game against Celtic in Bloemfontein is even worse, as Celtic are capable of beating Sundowns. having hit Sundowns for five in the past. But Pirates, who have Justin Shonga, Musa Nyatama and Thembinkosi Lorch on tap, are against sides that are not only stubborn but brimming with quality. Wits are eyeing a place in the top eight and they will not want to do Pirates any favours. The defending champions have already said they will play a role in terms of where the title goes and, having already lost to Sundowns 2-0 last weekend, keeping their word will mean they have to win against Pirates. In Cape Town, McCarthy will find himself with the challenge of keeping his side in the top eight – or even challenging for a place in the CAF Confederation Cup, where the former Pirates striker said he wants to be. That then throws Pirates with a curve-ball and after that one match, the Buccaneers will welcome Luc Eymael’s relentless Free State Stars who are also fancying themselves for a top four position ahead of both Maritzburg and Kaizer Chiefs. In the end, either Sundowns and Pirates, the only two teams with a chance of winning the league, will emerge as the 2017-18 PSL champions. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za