EFF leader Julius Malema lambasted those who “betrayed” and “sold out” Winnie Madikizela-Mandela during the struggle in his farewell speech at her funeral at the Orlando Stadium in Soweto, Johannesburg on Saturday. Without mincing his words, Malema referred to the people who rejected Mama Winnie, while she was facing trials during the struggle, as “betrayers” and “sell outs”. “We see these people among us here today, we don’t know what to do because we don’t want to be accused of being insensitive and disrespecting your dignified funeral. We mention these incidences just to make them aware that we know what they did to you, they must never think we have forgotten. We see you in your beautiful suits, betrayers, sellouts, we see you,” Malema said. Malema also took a swipe at members of the ANC Women’s League NEC, who resigned from the league under her leadership saying that they could not be led by a criminal. “They are here, Some of them are playing prominent roles in your funeral. In a funeral of a person they called a criminal and a person they were ready to humiliate in front of the whole world. They are here, Mama. Mama, I’m waiting for a signal on how we should treat them.” “They are crying the loudest, more than all of us who cared for you. Mama, the UDF cabal is here! The cabal that rejected you and disowned you and sent you to the brutal apartheid regime is here. Why did the UDF call a press conference to disassociate themselves from you? Because you were never a member of the UDF, you were a member of the ANC. You were the only one pronouncing the ANC in the 80s. Why did the UDF see the need to disassociate with a person who was not their member? Mama, you never told me how to treat them when they get here. I am waiting for a signal.” Meanwhile, Malema applauded the residents of the Winnie Mandela settlement on the East Rand, for naming their home after her. “They named their place after you when you were still alive, because they knew your worth.” In finishing off his tribute to Mama Winnie, Malema called for the Cape Town International Airport to be renamed in honour of her. “If it is true that the ANC wants to honour you, let them name Cape Town Airport after Winnie Mandela.” -TNA Reporter