THE ANC’s fragile unity will be severely tested as supporters of former president Jacob Zuma begin mobilisation ahead of his appearance in the Durban High Court tomorrow. Zuma will appear in court together with a representative of the French arms company, Thales, on charges including corruption and money laundering in regard to the company’s alleged R500 000 bribe to Zuma relating to the 1995 arms deal. The planned show of support for Zuma should ratchet up tensions in the ruling party as it seeks to present a united front ahead of next year’s national and provincial elections and the rerun of its KZN provincial conference. His supporters will hold a night vigil at Durban’s Albert Park tonight, hours before Zuma appears in court. In addition, lobby groups for Zuma including the Black First Land First (BLF) , the National Funeral Practitioners Association of South Africa (Nafupa SA), Delangakubona and #RET Champion, have combined forces to form the Defenders of RET, which yesterday unveiled plans to bus in people to show solidarity with the former president in court. The night vigil will see prominent religious leaders sharing the stage with Zuma’s supporters, then move to King Dinizulu Park tomorrow morning for a march through the city centre to the Durban High Court. It was not clear whether Zuma would address them. The Defenders of RET said ANC members could even come in their party regalia if they so wished. This goes against the ruling party’s directive to members who want to support Zuma to do so in their personal capacity and not wear party colours. “Members involved in such actions are discouraged from displaying ANC paraphernalia and thus creating the false impression that the ANC as (an) organisation identifies with, or approves of, the misdemeanours of which any member or leader may be accused,” ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule said recently. Yesterday, Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) president Kebby Maphatsoe called on every member of the ANC to speak in one voice of unity and renewal. “The NEC issued a statement on the matter. Everyone who goes to support Zuma must support him as an individual. He’s still a member of the ANC in good standing. These are allegations against Zuma,” he said. Earlier, coordinator of the KZN provincial interim committee Sihle Zikalala created a stir when he said: “The ANC has taken a decision and I will abide by the ANC national executive committee by the decision on the (Zuma) matter.” However, yesterday the leader of #RETChampion, Nkosentsha Shezi, said the anti-Zuma forces would ensure he was jailed at any cost. “Because of the trial that has happened in the media and the political interference around his charges, it is no longer possible for Zuma to get a fair trial,” Shezi said. The BLF’s Andile Mngximtama urged South Africans not to repeat the mistake they made when the late Winnie Madikizela-Mandela was dragged into court and demonised by opponents of change in South Africa. “When she was vilified, dragged into court and charges were concocted against her and when she was convicted we allowed the enemy of black people to separate us from her. We cannot repeat that mistake,” he said. The group said it was aware of a plan to plant agent provocateurs to cause chaos to paint the Zuma supporters as anarchists. They called on the SAPS and Durban metro police to keep a close eye on all marchers. National Interfaith Council of South Africa bishop Timothy Ngcobo said: “We have received information that there are elements that have already been mobilised to join the activities in order to cause chaos. This is aimed at creating a wrong perception in the eyes of the public that former president Zuma’s supporters are anarchists.” ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe did not respond to questions about the implications of ANC members coming out to support Zuma and possibly defying the party’s directive to do so in their personal capacity. National police spokesperson Col Vishnu Naidoo said the police had not identified any threat but would be out in full force to monitor the situation as from today. “If the situation demands our security attention, we will be ready for that,” he said. -SIHLE MAVUSO|ihlem@thenewage.co.za