NEWS of struggle icon Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s death has united almost the entire nation in grief since the announcement of her passing away was announced. Scores of people had to shelve their plans to celebrate Easter Monday with braais and parties after the sad news. The world was also shaken by news of the death of one of the most celebrated struggle stalwarts in South Africa. Fond newspaper headlines heaped praise on the woman dubbed the Mother of the Nation. Political parties buried their differences to pay tribute to the woman who refused to be destroyed by a brutal apartheid regime by arresting and banishing her at her slightest attack on the unjust system. Thousands of people have been visiting her home in Soweto since Monday to convey their condolences. Members of the ANC and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) chanted freedom songs outside her house to celebrate her life. All in memory of the woman who fought for the rights of black people to have their rightful place in the land of their birth. A woman who stood the test of time. Among those who visited the family shortly after the news of her death were ANC leaders including President Cyril Ramaphosa and Deputy President David Mabuza and members of the national executive and the leaders of the ANC Women’s League as well as EFF leader Julius Malema, his executive and scores of party members. They were united in sorrow of having lost a great cadre, a mother and a
grandmother. Her death sent shock waves around the globe. Kenyan opposition leader Raila Odinga, African Union commission head Moussa Faki Mahamat, Nigerian President Muhammadu Buhari, US actor Idris Elba and Naomi Campbell
were among the first to take to social media to pay tribute to the fallen icon. Madikizela-Mandela died aged 81 at Netcare Milpark Hospital in Johannesburg, surrounded by her family, following a lengthy illness. Reports said she attended a service at the Methodist Church in Soweto on Friday – as if she had a premonition about her death and she had gone to pray for her last mile to the Pearly Gates. As a way of honouring her services to the country, Madikizela-Mandela will be given a state funeral on April 14. The memorial service will take place on Wednesday at Orlando Stadium. Buses will be made available to ferry mourners to the venue. She will be buried at Fourways Memorial Park in Johannesburg. Political party leaders are expected to join thousands of mourners who are expected to attend the funeral. Briefing the media yesterday, another ANC stalwart, Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, called on the leadership of the party to reflect on Madikizela-Mandela’s legacy of fighting for the poor by ensuring a better life for all. “Mama Winnie touched so many lives and was loved by many in South Africa
and the world. “People were inspired by her courage and tenacity during the fight for freedom and the subsequent suffering she endured as a result of her involvement in the struggle at the hands of the apartheid regime,” Dlamini Zuma said in tribute to the late Madikizela-Mandela. -NTOMBI NKOSI AND LERATO DIALE