The African National Congress (ANC) is to engage DJ Black Coffee who has come under fire for his performance in Israel this past weekend. The ANC says that it is concerned with DJ Black Coffee’s performance in the country which still deprives Palestinians their rights. Furthermore, the party says that the cultural aspect of the boycott was critical in advancing the cause to ensure that South Africa isolate what is clearly an apartheid government of Israel. “It is therefore with deep concern that the African National Congress has learnt of the recent visit to Israel of Mr Nkosinathi Maphumulo, popularly known as Black Coffee. We wish to open engagements on this issue broadly with the creative sector, with a view to ensuring that South Africa continues to play a critical role in helping to resolve the crisis of the Palestinian occupation. “We await an opportunity to engage Black Coffee and the creative sector at large, with a view of finding each other on this and other matters, as a way of creating common cause between all South Africans in rallying behind Palestine.” The ANC says that as solidary to the people of Palestine, the government has also unconditionally downgraded the South African Embassy in Israeli to a liaison office. The human rights and Palestine solidarity organisation (BDS) South Africa has also expressed its disappointment in Black Coffee’s decision to “once again perform in Tel Aviv in violation of the cultural boycott of Israel”. Israel is accused of illegally occupying Palestinian land and also depriving the rights of their citizens. The ANC says that the people of Palestine are in a just cause for self-determination and further urges artists ‘not to form part of the normalization of Israeli’s suppression of the Palestinian people’. The DJ received a backlash from Twitter users after posting a video of his successful performance in Tel Aviv, Israeli. Venice was dope with @LocoDiceOFC next stop Naples. pic.twitter.com/YxL7JlwJBp — #PIECESOFME (@RealBlackCoffee) April 2, 2018  In his defence, Black Coffee said that he was just an entertainer trying to feed his family. Like everyone else I have rights and free will and no Black Coffee is not a political party…I work as an entertainer to feed my Family.To sum it up….I'll take a bullet for my Family. — #PIECESOFME (@RealBlackCoffee) April 2, 2018  -TNA Reporter