THE family of two youngsters, Karabo Malapane and Resego Khumalo who were allegedly killed by a police officer in a hit and run, have complained that they are being intimidated into withdrawing the case. This is despite police in the province saying the case was receiving attention. The 13-year-old boys were riding a bicycle to go to buy ice cream at a garage on the R510 road in Sandfontein near Rustenburg when a speeding BMW hit and killed them instantly. The horrifying story of the two boys surfaced on social media when the uncle of the boys spoke on how the case had been stuck and no one had appeared in court for the death of the boys in March. A month later, the family claims that they have been kept in the dark and no one has been charged. The uncle, Reginald Motsamai, said they were alerted to the accident about 2pm that Sunday. “My aunt, along with my parents, arrived at the scene of the accident to find the dead bodies of their children lying on the side of the road. And the person who killed them was nowhere to be seen. “The police came and did their accident reports, loaded the boys’ corpses into their vans and took them to Phokeng mortuary. A few minutes after the cops left while my mother was washing my nephews’ blood off the tar road, a tow truck arrived and they loaded up the silver BMW and left.” Motsamai said the family went through so much pain and trouble. “The SAPS is failing us. We recently discovered that the Silver BMW driver who killed the children is a SAPS member and his colleagues have been calling and harassing my aunt, a widow, who just buried her son. “We don’t know if the driver has been charged or if he has or will appear in court,” he said. Motsamai said they suspect there was foul play going on with this case. Police confirmed yesterday that the alleged perpetrator was a police officer working at the SAPS Academy in Limpopo. “The said a privately-owned vehicle was driven by a police official. An investigation into the matter is under way and a warning statement has been obtained from the driver. “The last witness’s statement was obtained last week,” Brig Sebata Mokgwabone said. In contrast to claims by the family that the case was stagnant and threats were made to have it withdrawn, police said that the docket would soon be taken to prosecution for a decision and at this stage no undue delay or below par investigation had been detected regarding this case. Mokgwabone said that the complainants, the deceased’s parents, were advised to feel free to talk to the cluster commander of Rustenburg, Maj-Gen Adams, in case of any dissatisfaction. -DIKELEDI MOLOBELA|dikeledir@thenewage.co.za