A MEETING of the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) national executive committee (NEC) will meet this weekend with a raft of contentious political matters to sift through amid reports of internal discord and elective conference fever. The league is in the process of sketching its political road map towards an elective conference earmarked for June against the background of behindclosed-doors lobbying for the league’s top six national positions. ANCYL KwaZulu-Natal regional secretary Thandoxulo Sabelo, who has received the backing of his provincial structure, league treasurer Reggie Nkabinde and NEC member Ndumiso Mokako, are said to be gunning for the position of ANCYL president’s Collen Maine. Insiders said league branches in Mpumalanga and the North West were warming up to the idea of Sabelo taking over from Maine. This comes against the background of Sabelo already having received a nod of approval from his home province and support for him in Gauteng gaining momentum. “Limpopo and the North West are going to back him and he has strong support in Gauteng,” an insider said, ANCYL national spokesperson Mlondi Mkhize said preparations for the league’s congress were under way and that the league would take stock of its state of preparedness for convening its congress. “Preparations for the congress are proceeding and the state of readiness will be informed by the league’s branch general meetings across the league’s 54 regions in the country. Their outcomes will tell us about the state of readiness,” he said. Mkhize said several league structures were already in the process of convening regional and provincial conferences. “They are taking place across the country. Our structures are busy preparing for regional and provincial congresses in Limpopo and Mpumalanga. “An ANCYL national working committee is meeting next week and it will reflect on how far we have come,” Mkhize said. Calls for the ANCYL to elect younger leaders into its structures are growing ahead of next year’s general elections. It is for this reason that Mkhize said congress delegates were the final arbiters on deciding whom they wanted to lead the league. “The congress itself must make that reflection. You can’t just determine who gets voted in and who does not get voted in,” he said. The league recently lamented its increasing isolation from ANC events following its exclusion from the programme of Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s state funeral. An internal rift between Maine and deputy secretary Thandi Moraka has also reportedly taken root. Mkhize said the NEC would reflect on these developments. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO