A NELSON Mandela Bay man who tossed his young daughter from a shack roof will appear in the New Brighton Magistrate’s Court today. The 38-year-old man who cannot be named to protect the child’s identity is facing charges of attempted murder. The incident occurred at Joe Slovo informal settlement on Thursday when the man flung his child from the roof of his shack while resisting the demolition of the structure. Meanwhile, four suspects are expected to appear in the Brakpan Magistrate’s Court in Ekurhuleni after they were bust with gold nuggets with a street value of R300000. Their arrests came after a tip off about people involved in a transaction involving gold nuggets at the Carnival Mall parking lot in Brakpan. “Armed with a description of the people involved and the vehicles they would be using, the officers were able to apprehend four suspects and seize gold nuggets,” EMPD spokesperson chief superintendent Wilfred Kgasago said. He said while closely monitoring the Carnival Mall parking area, the law enforcers sighted two men fitting the description provided showing something from a bag to two men assumed to be buyers of the goods. “The officers approached the parties whereupon gold nuggets were found in their possession. “Both the sellers and potential buyers were arrested. In the boot of the sellers’ car unprocessed gold ore was discovered,” he said. The two suspects who were found in possession of the gold nuggets, a Ugandan national and a Zimbabwean national aged 47 and 39, were detained at Brakpan police station on a charge of being illegally in possession of precious metals. In a separate incident, 11 drunk drivers were arrested in the area around Welgedacht. The EMPD freeway, K9 and public order policing units mounted a roadblock at the intersection of Honeysuckle and First Road and conducted roadside checks around the area. Kgasago said the roadblock came to light due to complaints of reckless and drunk driving received from community members. “All the arrested drivers were male with one of them driving drunk with a six-year-old girl passenger. The child was taken to her mother who was at work,” Kgasago said. They were charged with driving under the influence of alcohol and are expected to appear in the Springs Magistrate’s Court today. ntombin@thenewage.co.za -NTOMBI NKOSI AND SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE