Several prominent South African personalities have congratulated world renowned Ndebele artist Esther Mahlangu for being conferred with an honorary doctorate. Mahlangu was on Monday conferred with an honorary doctorate by the University of Johannesburg for her artistic work and how she has represented South Africa on the world stage. The 82-year-old painter has done a lot of work on the international stage including a collaboration with USA RnB sensation John Legend on an anti-Aids campaign, and  German carmaker BMW on two of its iconic brands on two occasions amongst others. Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa congratulated Mahlangu and described her as South Africa’s living legend and proudly carrying the African culture and heritage on the wings of her artistic genius. Congratulations to our living legend, Dr Esther Mahlangu for being conferred with an Honourary Doctorate by the University of Johannesburg. For many decades Dr Mahlanga has not only soared, but she has proudly carried African culture & heritage on the wings of her artistic genius pic.twitter.com/BQRsewOttK — Min. Nathi Mthethwa (@NathiMthethwaSA) April 10, 2018 Minister of Higher Education and Training Naledi Pandor also congratulated the world-renowned artist on her achievement. “Just watch, all of you. I’ll show you what a woman can do. I’ll go across the world, I’ll race to the moon. I’ll never look back.” Congratulations to Esther Mahlangu on her honorary doctorate with @go2uj She is, undoubtedly, an epitome of #BlackExcellence pic.twitter.com/sKBJmQTD0f — Naledi Pandor (@NalediPandor) April 9, 2018 The South African government also acknowledged Mahlangu’s achievement and also congratulated her on the award. Congratulations to our living legend, Dr Esther Mahlangu for being conferred with an Honourary Doctorate by the University of Johannesburg.  pic.twitter.com/wz9c1hd6zw — South African Government (@GovernmentZA) April 10, 2018 Public Protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane congratulated Mahlangu for her achievement and the University of Johannesburg for honouring her while she was still alive. Siyazikhakhazisa ngawe Dr Esther Nostokana Mahlangu, sithokoza @go2uj for honoring her whilst still alive. pic.twitter.com/EWQFSXAOs6 — AdvBusisiweMkhwebane (@AdvBMkhwebane) April 10, 2018 -TNA Reporter