Government leaders yesterday gathered at the heritage site of the Methodist Church in Ludeke village, where the late Winnie Nomzamo Madikizela Mandela and her late former husband Nelson Rolihlahla were married in 1958. Significantly, the church was built 106 years ago in 1912, the same year that the ANC was launched. “She was a mother to me, I lived with mama Winnie for 10 years in Orlando East. We attended church together when I was very young, when we were not in political meetings she would lock her house and whoever was with her had to follow her to church,” NEC member Pemmy Majodina said. She also said Madikizela-Mandela was a many-faceted woman who was a Godfearing and courageous person, a politician, a wife to Abathembu and mother of the nation. Majodina said the church heritage site had to be preserved for posterity. “We are working together with the church to make sure that we preserve the site. We can’t destroy the outside because it resembles its historic significance.” She also confirmed that tomorrow’s memorial service would be three-phase. “The first phase will be the religious sector phase and the South African Council of Churches will conduct that. The second phase will be about people who were very close to Madikizela-Mandela and family members will be included in this phase where her siblings and elders will speak. Lastly, the third phase will be provincial government and national government which is when the President will also speak.” Pastor Mziwoxolo Mkabeni said there would be a memorial service at the church on Thursday. “We are proud to have had a leader of her calibre coming out of this church. The Methodist Church of South Africa is proud to have raised such a great leader,” Mkabeni said. Later in the afternoon, members of the family and the ANC gathered in prayer and song to comfort the family. The ANC’s head of organisation and mobilisation, Senzo Mchunu, said he was happy to be welcomed with warm hands at the homestead of the Madikizela family in Mbongweni. He was there to comfort the family and mourn this great loss that affects the entire nation. “I am happy that as the ANC we were able to be here today and mourn with the family. We have not had intense discussions to regarding the developments of this homestead,” Mchunu said. SISANDA MADWANTSI