THE state is expected to close its case in the trial of murder accused Sandile Mantsoe today. During brief proceedings yesterday, the state announced that it would no longer screen CCTV video footage evidence in court. The footage, which played a major role in Matsoe being arrested for allegedly killing and burning his girlfriend Karabo Mokoena, shows the couple entering his apartment and on the same night, him leaving the building with a wheelie bin. However, the state and defence have agreed to show only still photos from
the footage. Last week Manstoe spoke publicly for the first time and denied killing Mokoena, claiming she committed suicide and that he found her dead hours after they had an argument. Mantsoe, however, agreed he disposed of her body using pool acid, petrol
and tyres. According to a state witness who testified last week, Mokoena was killed in a sacrificial ritual for separation between her and the accused. Const Helen Mahwete, who attended the crime scene where Mokoena’s charred remains were found, said the accused, Mantsoe, told her Mokoena had stabbed herself in the neck and mixed her blood with his for a separation ritual. “The accused said Karabo knew a sacrifice had to be made, she stabbed herself in the neck and he took Karabo’s blood to mix with his blood which he had to return after 14 days. He said the blood was kept in his apartment,” she said. “He told us that he got his powers when they met with Karabo and a ‘Master’ brought them together to boost his forex trading business,” she said. In his statement, Mantsoe painted Mokoena as someone who was suicidal and had many boyfriends. He said that Mokoena had a miscarriage after her Nigerian ex-boyfriend kicked her in the stomach. Mantsoe said that Mokoena had tried to commit suicide before and her sister was aware of the incident. “She also tried to take her own life in Sandton when she drank an overdose of pills, I found her dizzy. “We broke up more than five times and she would come back and apologise and we would work things out,” his statement read. Mokoena, 22, disappeared in April last year, after a massive police and social media search for her. Her charred remains were discovered in a shallow grave in Lyndhurst on May 10 last year. dikeledir@thenewage.co.za