FRESH from securing their place in the Nedbank Cup semifinal, Mamelodi Sundowns will welcome Chippa United at Loftus Versfeld Stadium tomorrow night. For the Brazilians, a victory against Vladislav Heric’s team will see their domestic double ambitions remain on course, with a defeat or draw likely to give second-placed Orlando Pirates advantage in the exciting league race. Pitso Mosimane’s team were in their element when they managed a 2-1 victory over Cape Town City, with Khama Billiat and Percy Tau once again combining to good effect to knock out Benni McCarthy’s side. With the Chippa game coming just three days after the Cape Town City win, that will now see Sundowns clash with Maritzburg United in the last four of the country’s version of the FA Cup, Mosimane said he was happy that his team had won the match in regulation time. This is despite City throwing the kitchen sink at Sundowns, with Bradley Ralani scoring to give the Brazilians a bit of a scare. “It was important not to go to extra time because it would have spoiled the whole week. We have eight games in 28 days so we have to be smart and not emotional,” Mosimane said. “I think we did well. We missed a lot of chances in the first half. We hit the post twice. “We have experienced Bafana players and they managed the game well. Thapelo (Morena) struggled a little bit with (Bradley) Ralani. “He’s a good player. I have to give Ralani credit. But we have the experience to play this game,” the Sundowns coach said. Top of the log with 43 points from 23 games, the Brazilians have a point more than Pirates, who are also in action on the same day against Bloemfontein Celtic, having played a game more. Sundowns are nevertheless finding it tough in the league, having won just two of their last five fixtures, with the other three fixtures ending in draws. The Brazilians flew from Cape Town right after the match on Sunday and were training at their Chloorkop base at 1am. This may well be preparation for when they travel to Morocco for the CAF Champions League clash against Wydad Casablanca. But with Chippa their immediate headache, Sundowns will be thinking about what kind of game they can expect as they and Chippa have dished out mouth-watering encounters in the past when former coaches Dan Malesela and later Teboho Moloi were in charge, making the game ahead an intriguing one. This is because, unlike Malesela and Moloi, Heric is not known for an expansive game and even in his previous stints with the Chilli Boyz, the team never played like they did when Malesela and Moloi were around. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za