The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) says that the recent announcement made by lobby group AfriForum to pursue a private prosecution of fraud and corruption against Julius Malema was a mere attempt to ‘deflect the attention of the EFF’. This comes after AfriForum announced that it intends to privately prosecute the leader of the EFF, Julius Malema and a number of co-accused on allegations of fraud and corruption relating to tenders. “Whilst we are aware that South Africa’s Laws permits private prosecutions, we know with absolute certainty that Afriforum’s pursuit of EFF President and Commander in Chief Julius Malema is not about the rule of law, but an attempt to deflect the attention of the EFF from economic emancipation struggles, in particular, land expropriation without compensation,” the EFF said. The group has recorded about 25 charges against Malema. The charges that Malema faces are two counts of racketeering, five of corruption, Four of fraud and Fourteen relating to a contravention of the Prevention of Organised Crime Act. The EFF says that the actions by AfriForum are part of an onslaught against the EFF. The party alleges that this was a move to deflect the EFF on their call for the land expropriation without compensation. “Instead of engaging in a democratic debate and engagement on the land question, Afriforum does what their colonial and apartheid forefathers did to Freedom Fighters, which is criminal persecution and prosecutions for political reasons,” reads the EFF. The corruption relates to allegations that a company linked to Malema benefited from tenders in Limpopo. In 2012 an Engineering Company, called On-Point from Limpopo linked to Malema which was doing work for the roads department was alleged to be involved in corrupt activities relating to tenders. In a report by the then Public Protector Thuli Madonsela’s report, On-Point was alleged to have received millions from the Limpopo department of roads and transport which some of it was allegedly diverted into Malema’s Ratanang Family Trust. -TNA Reporter 