ANC stalwart Zola Skweyiya has been hailed a true public servant who devoted his life to serving the people. Family, friends and former colleagues yesterday gathered at the Tshwane Events Centre to pay tribute to the former minister of public service and administration and former minister of social development. Among other praises he was showered with, Skweyiya was lauded for his role in establishing the South Africa Social Security Agency to administer and manage a singular national social assistance to cater for the poor and vulnerable. Member of Parliament and former minister of defence Charles Nqakula, who met Skweyiya six decades ago, said he remembered him as someone who stood for unity. Nqakula said he was glad to have worked with Skweyiya at some point in his life. Representative of the veterans and former SA Tourism CEO Mavuso Msimang said anyone who knew Skweyiya would know that he was very respectful almost to a fault. “He was committed to the liberation of SA,” he said. Deputy President David Mabuza said: “Hardly a week after we laid to rest Mama Winnie Mandela, we are gathered here to mourn another fallen hero. This is the time when we are losing a generation of leaders who have enormously contributed to our freedom. This is a turning point for the organisation.” He described Skweyiya as a loyal and disciplined member of the ANC. Mabuza said throughout his life, Skweyiya performed extraordinary feats because he was driven by a deep sense of social justice, care and love of his people. “It was his deep hatred of racial oppression and injustice that inspired his life-long activism,” he said. Skweyiya’s grandchildren delivered a heartwarming tribute. One of his grandchildren shared the pain of learning of the late Cabinet minister’s death through the media. Former president Thabo Mbeki and his wife Zanele were also among the mourners at the memorial service. President Cyril Ramaphosa has declared a special official funeral Category 1 for Skweyiya and ordered that the national flag be flown at half-mast at all flag stations countrywide and at South African diplomatic missions abroad until Saturday evening. Ramaphosa will deliver the eulogy at the funeral service on Saturday at the CRC Church in Pretoria East -KUTULLO MADISHA|kutullom@thenewage.co.za