THE Port Elizabeth father who allegedly tossed his baby from the roof of his shack while preventing the demolition of illegal shacks will appear in the New Brighton Magistrate’s Court today. This comes after pictures circulated on social media of the man allegedly tossing the baby, who was caught by police officer Const Luyolo Nojulumba in mid-air. The incident triggered anger among people who viewed the pictures. The incident occurred during the demolition of illegal structures in the Joe Slovo informal settlement near KwaDesi by the Nelson Mandela Bay municipality. The 38-year-old man has been charged with attempted murder. A Krugersdorp family, accused of murdering 11 people between 2012 and 2016, will appear in the Johannesburg High Court today. This will be their first day of trial, which is expected to continue until June. The five are facing charges of racketeering, aggravated assault, being in possession of an unlicensed firearm, committing fraud and identity theft. Convicted racist Vicki Momberg will continue with her application for leave to appeal her sentencing and conviction on Wednesday in the Randburg Magistrate’s Court. During her previous appearance, the court deemed that her application was defective as it was flawed and vague. The court also questioned the grounds set by her defence team. The application was then postponed to allow the defence to file supplementary papers in respect of the application as the state was not happy with the original papers filed. Momberg was found guilty of four counts of crimen injuria for using the k-word 48 times. She was sentenced for two years direct imprisonment and one year suspended. Seven men accused of planning to assassinate Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) leaders will on Friday will appear in the Brits Magistrate’s Court. The accused include former and current union members who allegedly plotted to kill the Amcu union leaders for leadership positions in Marikana. The members allegedly hired hitmen to kill the leaders who were supposed to be paid R50000 per hit but only received R10000. The charges are conspiracy to murder and attempted murder. However, they will only hear later if their bail bid was successful after the Brits Magistrate’s Court postponed the matter on Friday. Amcu branch chairperson Malibongwe Mdazo was shot and wounded in Mooinooi outside Brits in July last year in an attempt to kill him. -KEITUMETSI MOTLHALE|keitumetsim@thenewage.co.za