THREE of the busiest roads in the Durban CBD will be closed today in anticipation of chaos ahead of former president Jacob Zuma’s appearance in the Durban High Court on charges of corruption relating to the 1995 arms deal. Thousands of Zuma supporters are expected to march from King Dinizulu Park along Dr Pixley KaSeme (West) Street to the Durban High Court in Margaret Mncadi Avenue (Victoria Embankment), limiting movement in the CBD from 6am until the completion of court proceedings. Security around the city has also been beefed up with extra deployments patrolling around the CDB as rumours of trouble become louder on social media. Police spokesperson Col Thembeka Mbhele said the maximum deployment began last night where they were expecting at least 2000 to 5000 Zuma supporters to be part of the all-night vigil at Albert Park. “All units will be there throughout the night and the morning to monitor the situation. “It is maximum deployment because in situations like this when there is a large gathering some can take advantage of the situation,” Mbhele said. During the court appearance supporters have been reserved a grassed area directly opposite the high court where they will await the outcome of the proceeding which are expected to be brief as Zuma’s legal representatives are seeking a postponement. Zuma’s lawyer Michael Hulley said: “After consultation with the NPA we will propose that the matter be remanded to a later date and how the matter is conducted going forward. If the judge is satisfied about that, that is how things will work.” Judge Themba Sishi will reportedly be the presiding judge in the case. Meanwhile, metro police spokesperson Parboo Sewpersad has urged motorists to plan their routes carefully and to practice patience in the expected traffic congestion. “Motorists should find alternative routes where possible and stay away from the high court precinct, that is the entrance and exit of the Nkosi Albert Luthuli Freeway (M4 Southern Freeway), Joseph Ndluli (Russell) Street and Margaret Mncadi Avenue. “Metro police will be on hand to assist motorists, divert traffic and ensure the safety of all road users,” he said. sihlem@thenewage.co.za