IT CAN’T get much bigger than overall victories against top sides for Proteas’ Ottis Gibson – who asked to be judged only after playing India and Australia when he started his job as national coach. And having won both series, Gibson is clearly satisfied with his achievements and what the Proteas provided. The Proteas made history by becoming the first SA team to beat Australia at home since being readmitted to international cricket in 1991, winning the Test series 3-1 yesterday in the fourth Test at Wanderers in Johannesburg. Australia were skittled out for 119 in their second innings, losing by 492 runs – Vernon Philander being the chief agent of destruction, taking 6-21. That followed the 2-1 victory over India early this year. “I’m obviously satisfied to win those two Test series, especially this one with all the other noise that has gone on,” Gibson said. The only scenario which upset Gibson was the off-the-field drama which dominated the Test series – from ball tampering to verbal clashes between Quinton de Kock and David Warner and other episodes – such as the shoulder clash between paceman Kagiso Rabada and skipper Steve Smith. Gibson said it was difficult to keep his players focused on the job at hand. “From my point of view, the one thing I did well all the time is I kept the support staff focused on the cricket. “It was disappointing that after every game, the story was never about the cricket. “We always had to make the guys focus on the next game. We lost the first Test in Durban badly and we needed to make a strong statement in Port Elizabeth. “But again, the cricket didn’t take centre stage even though we played well. From that point of view, it was disappointing that cricket was never the real story. “For a change, the last Test for the summer we could talk about the cricket.” Having seen his players he selected perform well and now heading to the World Cup next year, Gibson said he will still give other players a chance to be selected. “I think the message for all the other franchise players is that when you perform well there you get a great chance of playing for your country.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za