TAX collector SARS missed its revenue target by a whisker, raking in R1.216 trillion for the financial 2017-18 against a target of R1.217 trillion announced by former finance minister Malusi Gigaba. Finance Minister Nhlanhla Nene, who presented the preliminary outcome of the revenue collection yesterday, said SARS refunded R234.3bn to taxpayers. He said the figures presented yesterday were preliminary and when finalised could well hit the magic number. The main sources of revenue were: • Personal income tax R462.5bn, • VAT R297.8bn, and • Company income tax at R49.4bn. Nene said lower consumer confidence resulted in lower domestic VAT, as citizens spent less. “Domestic VAT grew at a muted 4.5%, well below the 8.1% growth seen in previous years. “Revenue collections month on month contracted in March, driving down the aggregated yearly growth to 6.3%. Dividend taxes contracted by R3.9bn in relation to the prior year,” he said. Nene said due to the shorter business month in March, customs departments had to close their statements two days earlier than normal, thus shifting about R1.8bn to the next financial year. However, the purchasing managers’ index showed a recovery in the manufacturing sector which translated in improved company income tax from this sector. In the prior year, companies had anticipated an increase in the dividend tax rate which changed from 15% to 20%, effective February 22 last year. Nene said given the improved GDP growth of 1%, business and consumer confidence was a signal of good revenue collection ahead. He said after complete calculations, it was possible that the budget deficit would be reduced by 0.1%, which was something positive. SARS set a new tax target for 2018-19 of R1.3bn. Analysts said the numbers were better than expected and that one could not rule out a good job done by suspended commissioner Tom Moyane, despite the administration issues he had been faced with. Speaking on the sidelines of the briefing, Faith Ngwenya, technical and standard executive of the South African Institute of Professional Accountants (Saipa), said the numbers sounded positive. However, she said the damage had already been done given the revenue shortfall of R48bn for this financial year. She said the one percentage point VAT increase, 52c/l fuel levy and sugar tax combined would rake in about R33bn for the next budget. “The R33bn won’t cushion the current budget deficit but will help in the next financial year. We still have a long way to go to deal with the deficit of R48bn,” she said. Ngwenya said the new leadership at SARS was positive. When asked about the fact that under Moyane’s stewardship SARS hit the R1 trillion mark three years in a row, Ngwenya said when Moyane joined in 2014, SARS hit the mark in his first three months in the position. “So that tells you it’s not a one-man effort. “The SARS team never lost momentum despite the controversy surrounding Moyane,” Ngwenya said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za