SCORES of politicians, international leaders, family and ordinary South Africans continued visiting the Soweto home of fallen struggle icon Winnie Madikizela-Mandela yesterday to pay their last respects to her bereaved family. Gabriel Igbinedion, the chief of Benin city in Nigeria, was among those who came to mourn her death. “Mama Winnie was a leader who stood for equality and took care of the poor. Her life deserves to be celebrated,” Igbinedion said. Outside her home, workmen were erecting a stage while guests were laying wreaths and flowers. Around noon, ordinary citizens and ANC Youth League members began chanting and singing struggle songs. Local entrepreneurs were catering to the visitors who have been streaming to the Mandela residence – also taking the opportunity to make money. Sowetan Freddy Mgidlana, 56, who sells snacks and colddrinks at events, said he had seen an opportunity to make money for his four children. Outside Mama Winnie’s house, he was selling umbrellas and hats. “Business is doing very well with the masses supporting my business. I have been in the business of selling since the ’80s,” Mgidlana said. He said his business had been facing stiff competition as more people were selling the same goods and many foreigners were also adding to the mix. A visual artist, Lebanon Sirenje, who is originally from Zimbabwe but lives in Hillbrow, Johannesburg, paid homage to the late ANC leader by painting a portrait of Mama Winnie. “I always mourn a legend or celebrity by doing a painting. “Mama Winnie was a mother of the nation and the continent. She liberated us as Africans and this is how I am celebrating her,” he said. Sirenje, who does not have a studio, said he uses his home and public spaces to create his work. When he completes the portrait, he plans to donate it to MadikizelaMandela’s family. Another entrepreneur, Sakhile Madonsela, 13, was selling snacks and ice lollies to the people who came to pay their respects to Mama Winnie. “It is still school holidays, I was sad to hear that Gogo Winnie, as we called her, had died. “I noticed so many people coming with their children and asking for water from my house, I then had an idea to make money and help them at the same time,” Madonsela said. -NTOMBI NKOSI|ntombin@thenewage.co.za