A NEW study has showed that the manufacturing and supply of water-related technologies and services have the potential to grow into a multibillion-rand industry in the Western Cape. Economic opportunities MEC Alan Winde confirmed that the 2018 water market related intelligence report (MIR) prepared by GreenCape had established that the drought and an uncertain supply of water in the future, was the key driver in this sector. “The drought has been difficult for many sectors in the province. However, it has also presented us with opportunities and this report shows us the value of those opportunities. “We should never waste a good crisis. Now is the time for businesses and residents to invest in their own water resilience to ensure that we continue to grow the economy, secure the jobs we already have and create more moving forward,” Winde said. Some key opportunities depicted in the report include municipalities’ increased interest in potable water reuse of their municipal wastewater with a potential market of almost R2bn, potential residential market related to groundwater and rainwater systems across all private sector markets which could be worth R5.8bn and the large-scale seawater desalination that presents a number of opportunities that could generate around R3bn. Winde said that in the past 12 months there had been significant growth in demand for boreholes, well points and water treatment systems in the province. There had also been a huge demand for rainwater systems and GreenCape identified opportunities in the design, supply and installation of cost effective rainwater harvesting systems for use indoors such as toilet flushing and for laundries. So far the Oceana and Sea Harvest plants in Saldanha Bay have made investments into desalination plants. In Cape Town, desalination plants are on the cards. CEO of GreenCape Mike Mulcachy said: “The drought has been a catalyst for the water sector in the Western Cape and has reshaped the local market. The water crisis has driven the adoption of water technology in the private sector with significant growth seen in the commercial and residential sectors.” vincentc@thenewage.co.za -VINCENT CRUYWAGEN