ENERGY industry experts hailed the proposal to put Eskom’s mortgage unit, Eskom Finance Company (EFC), under the hammer, insisting it was a drain on the power utility and that the majority of South Africans were not aware that they were footing the bill to keep the utility’s employees in subsidised homes. The country is exposed to Eskom through more than R200bn of state guarantees, a point ratings agencies said was a great risk to SA’s sovereign rating. Eskom said that it was considering selling all of the EFC unit, a subsidiary which specialises in mortgage lending to employees. The unit had a loan book worth at least R8.7bn and about 16000 customers, tender documents showed. Eskom narrowly avoided a liquidity crunch this year by securing R20bn in short-term funding from banks but still faced an uncertain future. Eskom established the EFC in 1990 primarily to enable its employees to access cheap home loan finance. Eskom did not disclose the rates staff paid yesterday. The business appeared to be very low risk as EFC has had a loan-loss ratio below 0.1% for the past five years, it said. More than 90% of the mortgage repayments were managed by deducting money from employees’ salaries. The power utility is also taking more drastic measures such as reducing staff numbers to boost cash flow and luring back investors as the debt repayments loom. “Eskom is doing this as it has to raise money, taking into account that is not going to get any more from its shareholder, the government,” energy expert Chris Yelland said. “Also, the regulator, Nersa, did not grant the 19% tariff increase requested. It awarded only 5%.” He said the proposed sale of EFC was long overdue as Eskom starts looking at every way to raise money and save costs by targeting non-core assets to sell. “But the sale is a major blow to employees who have been financing their homes at far below the market rate,” he said. “Eskom is recovering this cost through high electricity tariffs,” he said. He said Eskom would have to reduce its 47000 staff, who are well paid compared to other industries, with the average cost to company remuneration of R600 000 a year, or R50 000 a month. Another industry expert, Mike Levington said: “The sale or closure of EFC it has been earmarked for some time. It has never been regarded as a core business.” President Cyril Ramaphosa made revamping state-owned firms like Eskom a priority as he sought to reverse years of economic stagnation and mismanagement. But he faces a difficult balancing act as talk of selling state assets is anathema to large sections of society including the country’s powerful trade union movement. The government said as far back as 2015 that it was considering divesting some Eskom assets, but the proposal was vehemently opposed by unions like Cosatu, on which Ramaphosa relies for support. Trade union Solidarity said yesterday that when talks around EFC started five years ago, the unions opposed any move that would adversely affect employees. “Now Eskom has taken a final decision and unions will not be able to influence this decision. “It will be a blow to employees if their home loan rates are hiked to normal commercial levels of around 10%,” the union said. But National Union of Mineworkers (NUM) vowed to challenge the decision to put EFC on sale. Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe said the utility would hold talks with unions about the plans to sell EFC. – with Reuters bernards@thenewage.co.za