IF THERE is a match neither SuperSport United nor Orlando Pirates cannot afford to drop points in, then their fixture at Mbombela stadium tonight is it. The three points are crucial for both teams, with Pirates looking to close the gap between them and log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns that was extended to four points at the weekend. A victory for SuperSport, however, wont change much on the log table as they will move to 30 points, level with Polokwane City on 30 points, but will remain 14th unless they win by a big margin. A victory though will ease pressure as they find themselves in the relegation zone with 27 points from 25 matches, only three ahead of 15th placed Ajax Cape Town who host Bidvest Wits in the other big match tonight. Both teams will be under huge pressure as they know that anything less than a victory won’t be good enough for their respective targets. Pirates coach Milutin Sredojevic, not that pleased with his side’s performance in their 2-1 hard-fought victory over Bloemfontein Celtic last week, is expecting a much improved performance tonight. “It was one of those performances I was not happy about, there was a lot of turnovers and not enough completed passes,” Sredojevic said. “We won the game but there are so many critical things that we need to improve on and this is what we have been working on because I need to admit that if we don’t correct them we will pay an expensive price.” irates will also be looking to end SuperSport recent dominance. The Buccaneers have not tasted a victory against the Tshwane in six matches in all competitions. With pressure to close the gap between them and Sundowns, Sredojevic said they have done their best to make sure the players don’t feel any undue pressure ahead of the match. “We told the players they must go out there and express themselves. They must express themselves in a best possible way. “We are looking forward to having better transitions because we are losing the ball in close counterattacks, we must defend better than we did against Celtic.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za