I met Mama Winnie Madikizela-Mandela for the first time in the mid-1980s at her home in Vilakazi Street. I introduced myself as a designer but she was skeptical at first, thinking that I was an informer sent by the apartheid regime. However, our connection was solidified when we had to identify the bodies of slain comrades– and when she learnt that one of my sisters was in jail for politics she accepted me as her personal designer. Our common identity as Pondos, proud of our heritage and the struggle for liberation of the oppressed, is what cemented our relationship. In the field of politics, she fought fearlessly and fiercely like a lioness protecting her cubs against the brutal laws of apartheid and suffered a great deal of torture and humiliation. Yet she prevailed with the undying spirit of “asijiki”, forward forever, backwards never. Personally, I struggled with the fact that African identity and heritage had been relegated to a state of nothingness as fashion design schools were Eurocentric and never incorporated diverse African cultures. My role, therefore, was to portray, display and enhance Mama Winnie’s unadulterated love for her Pondo identity, revealing her roots and her natural beauty. Many believe they know me as the originator of the “Madiba shirt”, but little do they know that Mama scribbled the first sketches of that shirt as a design brief, which considered his health issues as well as his uniqueness and style. She was instrumental in securing my destiny as a designer for the global icon who was Nelson Mandela. It was my earlier work for Mama Winnie and the Mandela family that resonated with Tata Madiba’s desire to wear something African-inspired and unique, not too constricting and
formal, yet elegant and casual enough for more formal occasions. A garment that could be worn in a boardroom or while addressing a rally. A tree has fallen. Mama Winnie was not just a member of the ANC, she embodied it. Politics now looked inspirational because of her. Her strong public image acted as a shield against the darkness of politics, her public trials, and tribulations. As an image consultant, a trusted friend, confidante and adopted family member, I witnessed all the chapters of her life. She used to refer to me as “antique Mandela household furniture”. I am convinced that although she was never given the recognition she rightfully deserved in her lifetime by the nation and her peers, the freedom of Mzansi is forever written in the scars that characterised her life. Mama uWinnie, as the first black woman social worker specialising in paediatrics, always remained humble, warm, compassionate, witty – with a wicked sense of humour and disarming angelic smile. A natural-born leader, Mama possessed an unconditional love for impoverished black South Africans and an unquenchable desire to liberate the people and for this she was willing to
stare death in the eyes of guns, torture, prison, banishment and smear campaigns. None succeeded in killing her spirit. Both oppressors and supporters marvelled at her distinctive style, unapologetically bold and resilient and I knew any deviation would not be allowed as she was resolute in her preferences. I was also tasked to convert all the fabrics she received globally as gifts into designs that would express her gratitude to the gift bearer as a sign of appreciation. The “doek” was her crown which she wore with pride as a Pondo and woman. Mama’s wish was the preservation of her style sense and support for upcoming designers to enter the mainstream economy. “Okweguzu liphum’ekhasini”, literally translated “like a ripe berry from its closet”, so was Mama Winnie’s appearance through her beauty and her adorable elegant stylish rooted in her proud heritage African fashion! In about 2012-13, I decided to honour and commemorate Mama Winnie with a collection inspired by her. A lifestyle and fashion brand that was sophisticated, contemporary, refined and elegant. The Winnie Mandela Collection is the true essence and spirit of a woman who is authoritative and nurturing, creative and innovative. Development through fashion was a passion we both had in common. The conceptualisation of the Annual Vukani! Fashion awards as an annual project – put together by the South African Fashion Design Agency (Safda) – became an organic extension. She endorsed the awards as they epitomised a true commitment to ensuring that designers from all walks of life in SA access the opportunity to develop and market their skills through a platform that would ordinarily not be available for emerging and young fashion entrepreneurs. Mama Winnie was a deeply spiritual leader. An avid churchgoer and ordained member of the Methodist Church and Woman’s Union, it would be her faith that would anchor her through the turbulent storms of her life and be her shield against her enemies. She could have moved to the suburbs like many others, but she chose to remain in the township where many of the people she fought for still struggle for survival even today. She could have amassed wealth like many others, but she chose to continue earning a living as an elected member of Parliament and continued to be a critical voice and conscience to our nation. I write this as a salute to a selfless life and embodiment of national passion and the subject of my eternal love. Mama Winnie was designed to be a fashion icon, ever elegant, ever flawless and a perfect beauty with the heart of a lion, my muse. –SONWABILE NDAMASE