TWO senior executives of auditing firm KPMG, Sipho Malaba and Dumi Tshuma, resigned with immediate effect at the weekend after they were implicated in financial irregularities involving VBS Mutual Bank. The pair are accused of mismanagement and fraudulent dealings with senior executives of VBS. KPMH accepted their resignations, with chairperson Wiseman Nkhulu insisting that there was a serious issue of trust in the firm in the wake of the latest scandal. The latest incident could not come at a worse time for the firm as it is trying to redeem itself after it was wracked by the scandal over its work on behalf of the Gupta family. Last month, the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) placed VBS under curatorship because of liquidity issues. KPMG said when VBS went into curatorship, information surfaced which prompted the firm to launch an independent investigation. The investigation was ongoing and further action would be taken as appropriate, it said. “This has been a very disappointing episode for KPMG,” the firm’s SA chief executive Nhlamulo Dlomu said. “However, there can be no tolerance for any conduct that compromises our reputation. We have moved decisively to deal with the situation,” Dlomu said yesterday. Both cases relate to conduct charges, connected to VBS bank and include a failure by the partners to comply with the firm’s policies and procedures regarding the disclosure of relevant financial interests. SARB said the deputy governor and the CEO of the Prudential Authority (PA), Kuben Naidoo, appointed advocate Terry Motau SC as an investigator in terms of section 134 of the Financial Sector Regulation Act 9 of 2017 to conduct a forensic investigation into the affairs of VBS. The objective of the investigation is to establish whether any of the business of VBS was conducted with the intent to defraud depositors or other creditors of the bank, or for any other fraudulent purpose. Further, the Reserve Bank wants the forensic investigation to look at VBS’s business conduct and if there were any reckless business practices or material non-disclosure, with or without the intent to defraud depositors and other creditors including any irregular conduct by VBS’s shareholders, directors, executive management, staff, stakeholders or related parties. “Based on the findings of the forensic investigation, the CEO of the PA will take appropriate follow-up action,” SARB said. Nkhulu told a media briefing yesterday the firm recognised the damage of trust with key stakeholders. He vowed to bring about sweeping changes at the firm needed to regain the trust of all stakeholders. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za