The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (Numsa) on Tuesday said it is disgusted by the DA’s proposal to allow prospective employees to opt out of the National Minimum Wage (NMW) if they wish, in order to get work. Numsa said what the DA is proposing is nothing but taking advantage of the poverty and desperation of unemployed workers by allowing bosses to exploit them with “slave wages” for two years. Numsa spokesperson Phakamile Hlubi-Majola said this demonstrates what the union has always maintained, that the ANC and the DA are ideologically one and the same. “The ANC’s current proposal on the NMW already allows employers to be exempted from paying the poverty wage of R20 per hour,” Hlubi-Majola said. During the DA’s recent Federal Congress at the weekend, the party announced that one of the proposals of the Congress was that unemployed people be given a Job Seekers Exemption Certificate (JSEC) that would allow them to enter into contracts which would allow a prospective employer to pay them less than R3 500 per month. Hlubi-Majola said it was clear that the DA believes poverty wage of R20 per hour or R3 500 per month is too high and would prefer that workers work for free and that the party has always been unashamedly pro-business. “They know that the poverty wage of R20 per hour will be reserved only for African labour. The employers can continue to earn massive salary packages at an average of R69 000, whilst workers must exist on a measly R20 per hour. They have always defended White Monopoly Capital and it is not surprising that this is their position.” Numsa said it was joining the fight to protect the next generation against more exploitation as it would never forgive the unions for allowing its hard-won right to strike to be taken away and agreeing to an NMW of R20 per hour. Hlubi-Majola said, as a member of Cosatu, the union was disappointed with the federation’s decision to support a proposal to limit the right to strike, which it rejected in 2016. “The state through the Department of Labour and the leadership of Cosatu, Nactu, and Fedusa have agreed to change the labour law to force workers to decide through a ballot before a strike could take place. “These changes are being proposed as part of the amendments to the labour law. If successful, these amendments will make it impossible for workers to go on strike.” Hlubi-Majola said Numsa, together with 20 other organisations, would embark on a strike on 25 April to raise their dissatisfaction with the attempt to limit the workers’ right to strike. “We call on all workers, organised or unorganised to withdraw their labour on 25 April. This may be the last time we are legally able to go on a protected strike. The certificate covers all workers in all sectors and it is a protected strike. We must defeat our oppressors the way we defeated apartheid!” -TNA Reporter