EFF leader Julius Malema on Sunday slammed former President Thabo Mbeki and others for criticising Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, and for being sexist. Madikizela-Mandela died on Monday after being in and out of hospital, battling kidney complications. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced that she would be offered a state funeral on Saturday. Last week, Mbeki criticised Madikizela-Mandela for disregarding some of the instructions given to her by ANC leaders during the fight against apartheid. “Someone who comes from Sussex University, who claims to be a leader, accuses Winnie of being reckless, why is he saying Winnie was reckless? Because there is nowhere in the Sussex political science book where it says when you free your arrested comrades, it is reckless. We cannot glorify bookish revolutionaries. Winnie was an activist, she responded then and there,” Malema said. Malema, who was visiting the late ANC veteran’s family for a second time since her passing also criticised the ANC and its leaders for not criticising the killings in the ANC camps during their time in exile, because they were committed by men, adding that the party had a problem entrenched within its structures but was too quick to push the allegation that Madikizela-Mandela killed a young activist Stompie Seipei. “It is now clear, mama never killed Stompie. Former police commissioner George Fivas came out and said there was no evidence linking the killing of Seipei to Mama but they continue to paddle that lie. Let us say for a second that Mama killed Stompie. We are never told who instructed people to kill people in MK camps because those were males. For a long time, we have been told about Mama Winnie killing just this one person because she is female.” Malema also announced that his party would hold its own memorial service in Brandfort in the Free State on Wednesday, next to the house where Madikizela-Mandela was banished. “We chose Brandfort because we believe the people of Brandfort should not be excluded from honouring the mother of the nation. The mother who inspired them and ensured that Brandfort played a significant role in the fight against apartheid. We think that it is the right thing to do.” -TNA Reporter