IT IS not clear when the nationwide bus strike that yesterday left thousands of commuters mainly in Gauteng, North West, KwaZulu-Natal and Western Cape stranded, will end. This despite an appeal from the Minister of Transport, Blade Nzimande, for parties involved in the negotiations aimed at ending the strike to urgently and cordially negotiate a settlement. Zanele Sabela from Satawu said there would be talk today between the employers for negotiations. “The outcome of the meeting will determine whether we continue or workers go back to work,” Sabela said. “It’s a pity this came at the expense of commuters.” Cosatu is in full support of the strike. Cosatu Gauteng secretary Dumisani Dakile said: “This can be resolved if they just give the workers what they want. We are here because employers don’t want to give them their fair share. They had no option but to down tools. We are hopeful we will get what we want. Workers are demanding a 12%
increase and employers are only offering a 7% increase and 7.5% over three
years.” Meanwhile, Nzimande said the parties involved must find a solution inspired by a common desire to make the bus industry a reliable, attractive and safe public transport mode. “The only reasonable outcome that the government expects from the negotiations is the immediate resumption of bus operations, while labour and employers are finding a permanent solution to the impasse,” Nzimande said. The strike came after the negotiations deadlocked when both parties failed to reach an agreement on Tuesday. In Marabastad, one of the biggest business centres in Tshwane was filled with stranded passengers. Some of the commuters were waiting for the Tshwane municipality buses A re Yeng. The municipality confirmed that today the buses would also not be operating. However, the management of the city said A Re Yeng was minimally affected by the strike as fewer than 15 drivers did not report for duty. The city said: “The drivers in question were picketing outside the Belle Ombre bus depot and were joined by 80 drivers from the Gautrain and Autopax. It is still not clear for how long the strike will continue. “We wish to apologise profusely to our A Re Yeng bus commuters for the inconvenience they endured and advise them to make alternative travel arrangements.” In KZN, the normally bustling Durban bus terminal was empty with a few commuters coming to find there were no coaches heading out of the province. With bags in his hand, Moses Kuramba was disappointed when he wanted to buy a bus ticket to Johannesburg. “They are saying there are no buses, I have no choice but to sleep here until the buses are back,” he said. A similar fate was also faced by those outside of Durban, especially in heavily affected rural Eshowe, Empangeni and Pietermaritzburg. Commuters were left stranded and forced to walk long distances in hopes of finding transport to work and schools. kutullom@thenewage.co.za