Kaizer Chiefs kept alive hopes of ending a three-season trophy drought when they beat Baroka 1-0 Saturday to reach the South African FA Cup semi-finals. The quarter-final at Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in eastern city Port Elizabeth was settled by a goal from defender Eric Mathoho on 37 minutes. A glancing header from the South Africa international after a corner flew across the goal and into the far corner of the net to the delight of a predominantly Chiefs-supporting crowd. Having failed to win two cup competitions and lying only fifth in the league, seven points off the pace with six rounds left, the FA Cup represents the last realistic chance of glory. “We should have won by at least four goals, but the most important thing is that we are through to the semi-finals,” said under-pressure Chiefs coach Steve Komphela. “My boys need to be more clinical in the penalty area — a low conversion rate of scoring chances has been a problem for us all season.” Many Chiefs fans blame former South Africa captain and centre-back Komphela for the lack of success, noting that his time in charge coincides with the barren spell. Serb Nikola Kavazovic, who has steered rank outsiders Township Rollers of Botswana into the CAF Champions League group stage this year, has said he would relish coaching Chiefs. Belgian Luc Eymael, coach of fourth-place Premiership club Free State Stars, has also been linked with a position that could become vacant in June when the contract of Komphela expires. Suspended Eymael had to watch from the Athlone Stadium stand as Stars reached the semi-finals with a 4-2 penalty shootout victory at Ubuntu Cape Town, the last second division survivors. The match ended 1-1 after extra time with Taahir Ganga putting Ubuntu ahead and Goodman Dlamini equalising during the first half of regular time. Belgian Andrea Fileccia scored the 80th-minute winner as Maritzburg United used home advantage to overcome Bloemfontein Celtic 2-1 in eastern city Pietermaritzburg. The most attractive quarter-final is set for Sunday with Cape Town City hosting 2016 CAF Champions League winners Mamelodi Sundowns. -AFP