South Africans should make the time to honour its heroes and those who have sacrificed towards the moulding of our democracy while they are still alive, this is according to Graca Machel. The widow of former President Nelson Mandela was on Monday paying tribute to her “Big Sister” Mama Winnie Madikizela-Mandela who passed away on Easter Monday last week. Machel said that while she has personally been touched by the outpouring of grief and fond memories people have regarding Mama Winnie she added that it would have been far more preferable for her to have heard the kind words while she was still alive. “Can you imagine how nice to would have been for Mama to sit among us and listen to all the tributes that have been outpouring since her transition was announced.” In a week where misleading and distorted accounts of Mama Winnie’s life have fought to compete alongside with stories about her bravery, Machel said that she was happy that some of the falsehoods about Madikizela-Mandela were being put to rest. “It would have been great for to have all the untruths that have lived with us to be cleared while still among us.” For years, Madikizela-Mandela had been accused of being involved in the murder of teenager Stompie Seipei, despite her being acquitted on appeal. However, speaking from her Parys home Stompie’s mother Mananki Seipei put it on record that she did not believe the Mama Winnie had any part in her son’s murder. “I have forgiven whoever killed my child and I met with Mam Winnie in 1997 inside a toilet without anyone knowing.We spoke. I know she did not kill Stompie,” she said. Meanwhile, Machel said that on a personal level that she was still processing Madikizela-Mandela’s death. “As a person, I take long to process pain and while I’m processing pain I prefer to be quiet. “To feel it to have every minute to try an understand the significance of the pain I am going through. It is too early for us to be able to process the pain we are going through,” she said. An emotional Ndileka Mandela, the eldest Grandchild of Nelson Mandela, all shared her grief saying that as a family they were devastated by Winnie’s passing. “It is very hard for me to be standing in front of you. We are still gutted.” She thanked the public over the outpouring of support the family has been receiving and said that they as a family still needed support. She also said that they were looking forward to Madikizela-Mandela receiving a dignified funeral. -TNA Reporter