CALLING for the passports of the Gupta family to be revoked and for North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo, as well as Home Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba to face a parliamentary inquiry, the ANC has assured opposition parties it is committed to seeing the inquiry into the family’s naturalisation through to its completion. The calls were made and assurances given as the Home Affairs portfolio committee yesterday unanimously resolved to hold a formal inquiry into the naturalisation process involving the Guptas. The inquiry is in its first phase, that of gaining information. The next phase will be holding formal hearings. Senior ANC member of Parliament Patrick Chauke yesterday called on the portfolio committee to write to Home Affairs to immediately withdraw the passports of the Gupta brothers who are reportedly in Dubai. He said that the horizon of the inquiry would have to be expanded and go beyond the naturalisation of members of the Gupta family. “What does it mean if these people, who are criminals, are in possession of our documents? “What does it say about Home Affairs? These are issues this inquiry have to look at. If they (the Guptas) are in possession of SA passports we have to instruct this department to immediately stop these passports.” Chauke also demanded that the parliament inquiry investigate if foreign nationals employed in what he called Gupta companies were legally in SA. “We have to help to clean up the Department of Home Affairs. “All those people who are in the country illegally are parked in many of these companies that the Guptas used to loot state money. We need therefore to expand our terms of reference.” On the activities of the Guptas in North West, Chauke said that “everything around the Guptas is made or starts in the North West. I’m sorry to say but that’s where it starts.” Anyone wanting to deal with schools in North West, he said, could not do so without involving a principal, the education MEC and the Premier. “It starts with the premier of that province (Supra Mahumapelo). I don’t see a family going there wanting to involve schools without the involvement of the premier and the MEC. Dealing with the process we can’t leave the premier of the province out.” DA MP Haniff Hoosen said that the investigation into the naturalisation of the Guptas “had been going on for a long time”. He appealed to the committee to reexamine documents submitted about naturalisation “for discrepancies”. He said that the Home Affairs’ director-general, Mkuseli Apleni, Gigaba and his predecessor, Hlengiwe Mkhize, had appeared before the committee on a number of occasions. “I want to ask Hansard if we could please have copies of those documents. When we do proceed with the inquiry we’ll find that some of the information provided was not the full story from minister to minister and also officials.” -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN|news@thenewage.co.za