THE ANC in North West yesterday ruled itself out of an alleged assassination plot targeting EFF leader Julius Malema. This comes as the EFF yesterday claimed that its leader, Julius Malema, bore the brunt of death threats originating from the province at a time of an EFF inspired motion of no confidence against Premier Supra Mahumapelo. The EFF has also approached the courts in a bid to have the motion conducted via secret ballot. However, ANC Youth League provincial spokesperson Tshiamo Tsotetsi said that neither the league nor the ANC were involved in the alleged plot. “I would disassociate the youth league and the ANC. We have never adopted such a decision. There can never be ANC involvement in the killing or assassination of any person,” Tsotetsi said. He also said the veracity of the EFF’s claims should be investigated and if any wrong doing was to be found, the perpetrators should face the full might of the law. “If any assassination attempt was made, it must be subject to investigation and if it is found to be true, then the people must face the law,” he said. EFF acting national spokesperson Tebogo Mokwele said yesterday that “politically insecure” people from the North West province were trying to kill Malema. He said that the threats came at a time when the EFF was on the cusp of “defeating” the ANC in the province. “The covert plans come from reliable sources which indicate that a small group of politically insecure and insane individuals from North West have approached drug dealers and assassins in different provinces, particularly in the Western Cape to kill EFF president. “These threats are real and should not be taken lightly because the North West is one of the provinces known for mysterious and unresolved political killings,” he said. Mokwele said that while he expected the police to deal with the matter by bringing those responsible to book, security around Malema and other leaders had been beefed up. “The EFF has alerted the minister of Police about the death threats and expects that action will be taken against each and every threat posed on the leadership of the EFF. “The EFF has also worked on strengthening of internal security because we are aware that cowards, who have no convincing alternate political programme against the EFF, are now resorting to thoughts of violent and fatal suppression of a genuine political alternative,” Mokwele said. He said the “ruling party” should reign in its disruptive members. “The ruling party must rein in its individual members and educate them that in a democratic society, violence should not be an option. “Politics should always be about presenting superior logic, solutions and alternatives and not on who has resources to hire assassins to suppress alternative views and organisations,” Mokwele said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO