LEGENDARY playwright Gibson Kente, known to many as the Father of Township Theatre, is being honoured through a tribute show titled, The Gibson Kente Music Tribute. This show at the Market Theatre, features some of the songs from the many theatre productions penned by the venerated Kente who died at the age of 72 in 2004. Kente was considered a pioneer of township culture with a string of plays such as How Long I Believe, Mama and the Load, Too Late and many others. His work produced 23 plays and TV dramas between 1963 and 1992. While it is known that Kente was a prolific writer and creator of black theatre, who wrote and performed plays which reflected township life and trained and inspired hundreds of black actors and singers at the height of apartheid, his second eldest son, Mzwandile Ngoko Kente remembers with fondness some of the moments spent with his father as a young kid growing up in Dube. “I have always been a good kid and some of the elders who frequented our home in Dube always told me I was a cool kid compared to my other siblings. “For me my father was the best dad I could ever have had. He was doting and I remember while we were driving together at night and I was 14 at the time. “As I was thinking why does my father not allow me to drive as we were closer to home, he just stopped on the side of the road and told me to drive. Talk about telepathy, it was the coolest thing ever,” Mzwandile told The New Age. Mzwandile has thanked Johannesburg theatres and the Market Theatre for keeping his father’s legacy alive. “I can’t thank them enough for doing this tribute show. “I was blown away when I first saw the show and indeed, Makhaola Ndebele and his team have done an amazing job,” he said. “Where Robert Sobukwe, Miriam Makeba and Nelson Mandela left an indelible mark in our imagination, the late Gibson “Bra Gib” Kente (1932- 2004) often referred to as the father of township theatre played an equally consequential role. “Plays like How Long, I Believe and Too Late among many others spoke to the heart of what indigenous South Africans experienced under a repressive and foreign regime,” a statement from Joburg Theatres said. Performed by a cast made up of actors and performers such as Billy Langa, Mxolisi and Siboniso (Soulphiatown), Gugu Mbongwa, Nobantu Baba, Ntsika Fana Ngxanga, Thembisile Khumalo, Xoli Bongwana, Paballo Sithe, and directed by Makhaola Ndebele, The Gibson Kente Music Tribute show, which opened at the Market Theatre on April 13 and wraps up on April 29 is a fitting tribute to the man who influenced so many of our acting legends. -SIYABONGA SITHOLE|siyabongas@thenewage.co.za