THE Mandela family yesterday lashed out at detractors bent on vilifying the 81-year-old former first lady in a raft of negative media narratives in the past two weeks. Speaking to thousands who gathered at the Orlando Stadium in Soweto yesterday to commemorate the life of struggle icon, MadikizelaMandela, her grandson Bambatha Mandela Orlando Stadium in Soweto ysaid the family watched in dismay how her name was being dragged through the mud since her death last Monday. “For those people still trying to drag Big Mummy’s name through the mud, we will not tolerate it. This is a great loss, Big Mummy was not just my grandmother but she was my mother. She was a queen who raised kings and queens, as the family we thank everyone for their support,” he said. Many mourners spoke of Mama Winnie’s courage and how eager she was to serve the poor and better their lives. Her personal assistant Zodwa Zwane evoked great emotion in her moving tribute to the woman for whom she had worked for a decade. Zwane said Madikizela-Mandela called her to her house in Orlando during the Easter weekend and told her about how she spent hours at church. “She complained that she did not hear the 7th word during the Easter Service, she talked about a sermon of forgiveness that was on the programme,” Zwane said. She and Mama Winnie shared a great love for many things, including fashion. “One day we spoke about funerals, Mama Winnie said she would make me famous when she was dead. I asked her how so, she said I would speak at her funeral. She said I must speak from the heart because I am not a politician. She asked me to comfort her children,” Zwane said. She cautioned Zindzi and Zenani that things would not be the same now that their mother was gone, that there were people who would be too busy for them. “We have lost a mother, a friend, someone we treasured, someone must take up the spear and continue where she left off. She complained that she did not hear the 7th word during the Easter Service, she talked about a sermon of forgiveness that was on the programme,” she said. Among the dignitaries who attended the memorial service was fellow struggle icon and friend Rita Nzanga who shared a prison cell with Madikizela-Mandela at Johannesburg prison. Nzanga told the crowd that she and Madikizela-Mandela fought side by side against pass laws, that they were arrested together and taken to No 4 prison. “Some among us were arrested while breastfeeding,” she said. Those who eulogised Madikizela-Mandela described her as an idol who remained in the struggle for the poor and downtrodden until her dying day. On top of several informal settlements named after her, she remained a resident of Soweto despite most of her family living in the suburbs. Salamina Molekoa came all the way from Spruitview in Ekurhuleni to attend the memorial and said women all over were united in celebrating and mourning her death. “We today have forgiven those who have been crucifying her. She was not a saint but we felt that she was not celebrated enough,” she said. IFP leader, prince Mangosuthu Buthelezi, EFF leaders, Azapo, PAC and various political parties also attended the memorial. These political parties put aside their rivalry in honour and tribute to Mama Winnie. Deputy President David Mabuza delivered the main address, while deputy secretary-general of the ANC Jesse Duarte accused the media of having been paid to write negatively about Madikizela-Mandela. “A certain Erasmus confessed to have paid some journalists to write bad things about Mama Winnie. “For those of you who did this, we want to say to you, sit down and shut up. “We know her worth and she gave everything to us. She gave every abandoned child a space to live, no child was turned away,” Duarte said. Madikizela-Mandela will be laid to rest on Saturday at Fourways Memorial Park in Johannesburg as the country continues to mourn and celebrate her life. -KUTULLO MADISHA AND NTOMBI NKOSI|news@thenewage.co.za