It was in 1985 during the height of the struggle when I met Winnie Madikizela-Mandela for the first time while I was a trade unionist with the SA Chemical Workers’ Union. I was part of a delegation that attended the conference of women trade unionists in Midrand. At the time, trade unions were among very few organisations fighting oppression from inside the country because most black political parties were banned by the apartheid regime. Mama Winnie was the keynote speaker at the event. She was the number one enemy of the National Party government but that did not deter her from activism and fighting for equality. I remember how she encouraged women and mothers to fight for the rights of the working class. I distinctly recall how she emphasised that we were leaders in a world dominated by men and that women, despite the oppression we faced, could play a bigger role in our country and the world. “Women are the backbone of our homes and they are the backbone of the liberation struggle,” she told us. These words came from a strong yet soft-spoken and kind person who cared for the poorest of the poor. She also displayed militancy and fierce passion. She was firm in her convictions. This was something that was required during the time when black South Africans were treated as inferior. During this time, I was also very angry about the way people of colour were being treated and how our rights were non-existent. By the end of the tour by our delegation, I felt a big shift in how I viewed the struggle and was inspired to play a bigger role in taking on the apartheid government. We were all inspired. Mama Winnie played a pivotal role in my decision to fight for human rights on a greater scale – beyond the workplace as a trade union activist. The “Mother of the Nation” motivated me to take on more responsibility in the liberation struggle. That day in 1985 when I met Winnie was a turning point in my life and I later got to know her as a person of great compassion and determination in the fight against apartheid. During the late 1980s and 1990s, I used to often bump into Mama Winnie when she was working in informal settlements. She was a voice for the voiceless and this is what drove her commitment. It also struck me how she was such a real symbol of resistance and strength. She persevered through adversity being without her husband for 27 years and constantly being harassed by apartheid’s security forces. When many of our struggle heroes, including her husband were imprisoned, she was the leader many looked to in the fight against apartheid. She was the brave rebel in a time when it was illegal and dangerous to carry the card of a liberation movement. Mama Winnie was fearless. She never gave up, she never stopped. She showed the apartheid government and the police who tormented her that she was not scared of them. Her strength during a time when she endured so much cruelty and harassment was something that I truly admired. Over the years Winnie and I became close friends as members of Parliament. One of my fondest memories of her was in Parliament. She was about to give her maiden speech in Parliament and she was nervous. “Must I write this speech? Can I just not go up to speak?” she said to me. I told her it was up to her. When she delivered that speech it just came naturally. No pretense, just passion. That is how we knew her. That moment was a testament to the person she was. When the moment came and there were many, she would rise up. She selflessly gave her life to fight for the liberation of South Africa and equality of all those who live in our beautiful country. Her unwavering commitment to this country’s prosperity will continue to inspire me. It is my hope that her legacy will continue to inspire future generations. We should remember Winnie for her determination to better the lives of the people of South Africa, especially the vulnerable and the poor. Her passing should remind us as a nation to recommit ourselves to ensuring that the values and the gains that Winnie and other liberators fought for are made a reality for more South Africans, especially the poor. There is still so much to do to ensure that more people taste the fruits of democracy. We must learn from her life and live by the principles that she lived by. In honour of our struggle heroine, the city of Cape Town is flying the flags at half-mast. It is important for us to honour Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s life along with the many giants who fought for our freedom and our rights. It was truly sad to hear of Mama Winnie’s passing and it is still hard to believe she’s no longer with us. We can find some solace in the knowledge that she fought tirelessly for our democracy and we must take the fight forward to keep her legacy alive. Patricia de Lille is mayor of Cape Town