The ANC National Executive Committee (NEC) decision to ban its party colours and regalia from the corruption trial of President Jacob Zuma has on Friday completely backfired. Despite an instruction issued last month by party Secretary General Ace Magashule against “displaying the ANC’s paraphernalia” hundreds of Zuma supporters turned up in their ANC gear outside the Durban High Court. Following a brief appearance, Zuma’s trial was postponed to 8 June following a request by the State. Outside the courtroom, hundreds of supporters donned their ANC regalia waiting to be addressed by Zuma. A number of prominent ANC leaders including the likes of, KwaZulu-Natal Premier Willies Mchunu and KZN Provincial convenor Sihle Zikala also came out in support of Zuma however they stayed away from wearing ANC colours. ANC KwaZulu-Natal youth league chairperson Kwazi Mshengu, who was present outside the court and appearing in his “personal capacity”, said that the NEC had miscalculated in its instruction to ban ANC colours from the trial. “The massive crowd that came to support former president Zuma requires that the ANC must reconsider itself in terms of decision making because the crowd mobilised itself with the assistance of the religious community in the province. “I think the message that is coming out is that the crowd is not willing to see president Zuma being isolated from the ANC,” he said. Mshengu added that given the large crowd which he believes may double in the next court appearance the ANC should reconsider the decision as many are interpreting as an isolation of Zuma. “It’s a case of taking a decision which is unimplementable which has negative ramifications,” he said. Political analyst Tshepo Kgadima characterised the day’s events as a public relations disaster for the African National Congress. “The decision of the National Executive Committee of the ANC effectively backfired,
spectacularly today. It was a blunder beyond imagination, therefore, putting into question the fortitude and ability of this leadership to lead through influence, be a leader of society and understand the limitations of leading a voluntary political party,” he said. Meanwhile in a tongue and cheek concession to the instruction that ANC members may show “solidarity with the affected persons in their individual capacity” many supporters outside the high court donned clothes bearing ANC colours with stickers written “personal capacity”. MK Military Veterans Association spokesperson Carl Niehaus at the beginning of the trial said that while he accepts the NEC decision, he does not believe it was a wise decision. “Former President of the ANC, O.R Tambo once said you don’t take decisions which are not implementable and you don’t take decisions which divide.” According to Niehaus, it is impractical to attempt to prevent party members who purchase ANC clad merchandise with their own money, from exercising their personal right to wear their clothes. “…perhaps the NEC should have thought a bit longer about this,” he said. -Siphiwe Mchunu