THE University of South Africa has made means to accommodate students who have not yet been paid out by the National Students Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) including allowing them to defer their examinations to the next semester. Students who managed to submit their assignments but are not ready to write their examinations in May and June will be allowed to postpone the exams to the next semester at no cost to them. University spokesperson Martin Ramotshela said: “Affected students who failed to submit their assignments will be allowed to cancel their registrations for semester one and move their modules to semester two without forfeiting fees. “Students who have progressed sufficiently with their academic programme and are confident that they are ready to write their examinations during the May/June examination period, still have the opportunity to do so. “Students who registered for both semester one and semester two will be allowed to amend their registration without forfeiting fees. Year modules are not affected as there is still sufficient academic time left.” He said students would be contacted individually through emails with details on the processes to be followed on the options they had chosen. “It is better to postpone or defer a module than taking the risk of writing the examination while illprepared,” Motshela said. Those who successfully complete their lower qualifications between May and June and meet the entrance requirement for a diploma or an undergraduate degree, may register for that qualification in the second semester. “Such students do not need to apply for admission to the higher qualification during the current application period,” he said. “These students will be identified and contacted individually to explain the registration process to be followed.” This comes after students at the institution said it was difficult for them to study as they had not received money for their study material. Meanwhile, NSFAS said R34m was disbursed to Unisa students as of March. Spokesperson Kagisho Mamabolo said NSFAS had paid upfront allowances in respect of all registration information received from the institution. He said they were yet to receive additional registration data from Unisa. lillians@thenewage.co.za -LILLIAN SELAPISA