As South Africans are getting to the reality of paying 15% VAT for almost everything, as announced by former Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba in February, the Ombudsman for Banking Services (OBS) Reana Steyn has urged consumers to rework their budgets and remember to include increases in their bank fees. Steyn on Wednesday said this was a good time to assess the services consumers require for their personal and business banking needs and also to shop around to see which bank had the most affordable fees for their needs, adding that banking fees can be negotiated with banks. Steyn said the real impact of the 1% increase would be on consumers. For example, Steyn said a family that paid a bond or rental of R7500 a month, would pay an additional  R75. The OBS said, in line with the practice of other financial ombudsman organisations internationally, the OBS did not have jurisdiction over complaints about a bank’s general interest rate policy or schedule of fees. However, she said the ombud may intervene in the instance that a bank charges a customer more than the agreed or publicised rate. “There are also rates such as the repayment rate for home loans, which although vary from bank to bank, cannot exceed a set legal maximum. “Banks charge a variety of fees for different types of transactions. It is in your best interest to obtain the bank’s list of charges and calculate the least expensive costs for your banking requirements. Most banks have their fees listed on their website so it’s quite easy to make comparisons,” Steyn said. She said another area worth being scrutinised was third-party bills which her office had been receiving increased complaints about and invoices being sent to consumers for payment to account details that differ from those originally supplied. “Unless consumers are very diligent, they will pay the fraudster and still owe the money to the ‘real supplier’ in terms of their contract.” “So, scrutiny and verifying information before payments is very important and even more so if the supplier advises you of a ‘change of bank account details’.” “Consumers should confirm in writing with a correct email address and by phone that the invoice details are correct and also raise any concerns immediately in order to safeguard themselves from any loss and inconvenience.” -TNA Reporter