As the small Eastern Cape town of Bizana, where Winnie Madikizela-Mandela was born, prepares for a memorial service for its former first citizen tomorrow, some family members have had to come to terms with the fact that they would not be able to attend their “daughter’s” funeral in Johannesburg on Saturday due to financial constraints. Among them is Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s niece, Nandi Madikizela, a street vendor who sells airtime, fruit and sweets. Nandi said she was saddened by the death of Madikizela-Mandela as she had lived in the hope that her aunt would one return to live in her home town. The news of the struggle leader’s death has attracted a stream of visitors, some hoping to get a glimpse of the little hamlet that gave birth to the iconic leader while others, including ANC leaders and service providers, are there in preparation for the memorial service. “Today is a very busy business day and I am happy about that. However, I cannot stop thinking about the fact that the money I am making here will never be enough to get me to Johannesburg for my aunt’s funeral. I am really hurt and I am still struggling to accept her passing,” the grieving niece said. “I remember how she used to treat all of us as her own children and showed us love and care. She was always ready to reprimand me whenever I was misbehaving.” Bizana, 24 years into democracy, remains underdeveloped with most people from surrounding villages having to take the bus into town twice a month to do their grocery shopping. Nandi said there had been hardly any change in the standard of living in the area. “Maybe the passing of my aunt will finally draw attention to us and the government will help to improve the poor conditions we live in,” she said. While her relatives were in mourning, some Bizana residents said their only connection with Madikizela-Mandela was through television and news coverage of her. However, despite the fact that Madikizela-Mandela existed on the periphery of the existence of many Bizana residents, there was a strong feeling that she should have been laid to rest in her place of birth. “It is sad that I cannot attend the funeral because the officials have the final say and they have decided that she be buried in Johannesburg,” Zibuyise Ntsetha, 63, said. “I understand that she belonged to the nation but she was supposed to be laid to rest in her place of birth just like Nelson Mandela was.” She said the community always took pride in the fact that Winnie was born in Bizana. “I just heard on TV that she died and the news was hurtful because we know she was an influential person,” Jikindaba Mbalela, 50, said. Mbalela said he was unaware that the president would be in town on Tuesday for the memorial service. Mathole Dinwa, 65, from Skhumbeni village said she was grateful to Madikizela-Mandela for standing up for the rights of women and for fighting for equality for black people. “I am hurt that she has died especially because not so long ago we lost our leader Nelson Mandela. I cannot help but wonder what South Africa will be like without these leaders.” Mayor of Mbizana, Daniswa Theodora Mafumbatha, said it was understandable that the people in Bizana wanted to pay their last respects in Johannesburg. “I wish we could take everyone to the funeral in Johannesburg but it is not possible, but everyone is welcome to come to Mphuthumi Mafumbatha Stadium tomorrow for the memorial service,” she said. news@thenewage.co.za