ANC Youth league has joined the world in wishing its condolences to the family of the Mother of the Nation and one of the most fearless revolutionaries who was committed to mass struggles and an indispensable voice of the marginalized Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. The youth league said Mama Winnie was one of the most decorated figures of the struggle for national liberation, as such, the South Africa youth identified with her struggles, not because of her 38-year marriage to former President Nelson Mandela but as a leader who fearlessly mobilised the masses against the heinous Apartheid regime in her own right. ANCYL Spokesperson Mlondolozi Mkhize said Madikizela-Mandela became a powerful voice of the exiled ANC inside the country under hostile conditions. Mkhize said she also provided refuge to many young activists who identified with the ANC when it was not popular to hoist high the colours of the ANC during years of illegality. “It was through her tireless struggles, unflinching loyalty to the cause and militancy that earned her the accolade of being the “Mother of the Nation”. “She has been a voice of courage and a symbol of daily struggles of poverty, hunger, unemployment, and landlessness experienced by the youth and marginalized post the 1994 democratic breakthrough. “One country has lost one of its dedicated and exemplary women leaders. She departs at the very critical phase of our struggle to unite the People’s Camp and the broader Alliance for the successful triumph of the National Democratic Revolution (NDR).”Mkhize said. Khize said Mama Winnie is now in the company of great women who have played a leadership role in the ANC and the liberation movement such as Albertina Sisulu, Josie Mpama, Jabulile Ndlovu, Ruth First and Miriam Makeba to mention a few. “Mam’Winnie Mandela will always occupy a special place in the hearts and minds of the ANCYL and broader membership base. “We will continue to celebrate her indelible contribution to our struggle through agitating and fighting for an end to youth unemployment and fight forcefully that free education is not reserved but funded by the State in the interest of a Black and African poor child.” In honour of Madikizela-Mandela, Mkhize said they were calling on the ANC led government to revisit its decision to increase VAT by 1% as an increase of VAT was a frontal attack on the working class and the poor, who are faced with the burden of taking care of many unemployed people especially the youth who are ravaged by poverty due to disinvestment  by Capital. -TNA Reporter