ALL signals are pointing to the ANC and EFF coming together for talks with EFF leader Julius Malema reportedly sending written communication to his former party expressing his desire to meet. Amid several matters that are of importance to both parties, talks could result in the squashing of misunderstandings between two of the leading parties in the country. With a “Ramalema bromance” brewing, it creates an avenue which would see the red berets’ leader going back to the ANC. In numerous public appearances, President Cyril Ramaphosa has tried to appeal to Malema, usually with a smile. Recently, he asked if Malema would accompany him to Marikana, North West, to visit the widows of victims of the massacre. This was a process initiated by liberation icon Winnie Madikizela-Mandela before she died earlier this month. This is an attempt to kill two birds with one stone fulfilling “Mama’s last wish,” Ramaphosa said – putting to rest the ghost of his alleged involvement in the days leading to Marikana. For Malema, the expropriation of land without compensation will be top of the agenda and to achieve this they would need the ANC and the end result would be a two-thirds majority in Parliament, making it possible for the implementation of legislation. Ramaphosa said at Madikizela-Mandela’s state funeral that he would honour her wish for him and Malema to return together to Marikana to meet the widows of the massacred. “At your 80th birthday, you said you’d take me and Juju to Marikana to meet the widows. We couldn’t go. I am left to go alone. I will be guided by your spirit. Juju will go with me to heal the wounds of the Marikana widows.” Ramaphosa has, for a while, been encouraging Malema to make his comeback to the ANC. Speaking recently during the ANC’s voter registration drive in Mamelodi, Tshwane, Ramaphosa said of the calls for Malema to return to the ANC. “We would love to have Julius Malema back in the ANC. He is still ANC down deep in his heart. The ANC is his home.” Deputy President David Mabuza echoed Ramaphosa’s sentiment. “The ANC has lost a comrade in Julius. The ANC would be better off with him inside the fold, so I am going to do my best to ask him to consider coming back home,” Mabuza said. In a rare demonstration of unity, the ANC and EFF also joined hands in supporting land expropriation without compensation in Parliament. The motion was debated in the national assembly, following which the majority of MPs voted in its favour. During the debate, Malema said: “All our people ever wanted was their land in which their dignity is founded. Let us come together and agree on this call to expropriate land without compensation. “It is not unconstitutional to amend the Constitution,” he said. –HLONI MASHEGO|hlonim@thenewage.co.za