THE controversy surrounding two top black accountants at auditing firm KMPG, Sipho Malaba and Dumi Tshuma over allegations of having failed to disclose their financial interest in VBS Mutual Bank, appears to be a bitter pill to swallow for those beating the drum of transformation. Observers said even though Imperial CEO Mark Lamberti was forced to resign, it did not spell doom for his illustrious career, rather it meant he would now have more time to play golf – but for the two “talented” black auditors – it would mark the end of their careers if found guilty. Some commentators insisted it would be a major blow for black professionals if Malaba and Tshuma were found to have been key players in the downfall of VBS Mutual Bank and that would make an envisaged black-owned bank even more difficult to attain. Since the resignation of the two, KPMG has started to pay a hefty costs as the auditor-general of SA, Kimi Makwetu, terminated state contracts with the firm. To make matters worse, KPMG also terminated the contracts of Nkonki, a 100% black-owned chartered accounting firm accredited by the JSE to audit companies on the bourse. “This is a catastrophe for black professionals in general,” an advocate for financial sector transformation, Khotso Mothobi, said. “It will be an acidic pain if all black people involved in this brouhaha have hit the end of their careers. “We have been calling for the financial sector to level the playing field by opening doors for black people for two decades and now it appears as if efforts by black people will be embroiled in a dark cloud,” Mothobi said. He urged black pressure groups and business lobbies to find ways and make sure that others did not fall into “a similar trap in future”. The Black Management Forum (BMF) said it was worried with what had transpired at KPMG irrespective of the colour of those involved. “As a champion of transformation we have to be clean in how we conduct ourselves. What concerns us is that those who are implicated in the latest KPMG scandal are black people, but it is too early to judge as investigations are still under way,” the BMF said. It said it appeared there was a systematic problem at KPMG whether one is black or white. “However, all is not lost for black people in the profession because KPMG CEO Nhlamu Dlomo and chairperson Prof Wiseman Nkuhlu are both members of BMF and they have been appointed to fix the mess at KPMG, as a major indication of trust among black professionals,”BMF said. Khaya Sithole, general-secretary of the Association of Business Administrators of South Africa said he did not believe people should be found guilty in a court of public opinion and that it would be wrong to brush all black professionals with the same brush even as investigations are yet to be concluded. “However, we are disappointed and the law must take its course if those involved are found guilty,” Sithole said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za