THE student funding programme managed by scheme the National Student Financial Aid (NSFAS) is still fraught with inefficiencies that both the NSFAS and the Higher Education Department have committed to address to ensure that student funding is not compromised. NSFAS chairperson Sizwe Nxasana said although they had successes with the system, there were challenges, especially relating to the integration of information between higher education institutions and the NSFAS. He said the scheme had given institutions a lump sum at the beginning of the year to ensure that it covered the registration fees of students. Nxasana said there were challenges with the information submitted by institutions as it sometimes did not only cover those who qualified for funding. Higher Education Minister Naledi Pandor this week said there would be concerted efforts in ensuring that these challenges were “ironed out” by the end of the year. “Some institutions report that they have submitted required data but students have not received funds. I have instructed the NSFAS to urgently address the integration issues and work with the affected institutions. “It is crucial that the NSFAS finalises the 2018 funding decisions urgently to ensure that all eligible students are confirmed, bursary agreements are signed and students get their allowances,” Pandor said. “It would not be correct to create the impression that institutions are not playing ball and that we are perfect at the scheme because we’re not. There are institutions that have submitted information that has gone missing and this is something that we all need to acknowledge. “Also, there are institutions that are still owed funds from previous years and have utilised the upfront payment to cover the gap. All of these are matters that we are ironing out,” Pandor said. Last year the NSFAS migrated fully to the new “student-centred model”. Pandor said there were still some challenges with finalising last year intake, especially where qualifying students had not yet signed their loan agreement forms. “I am aware that some continuing senior students have not yet had their funding finalised for the 2017 academic year. I find this to be unacceptable and have instructed my department and the NSFAS to work with institutions to deal with the outstanding cases as a matter of urgency.” Pandor also announced that poor students entering university and colleges for the first time would receive an additional R7bn in financial aid. The new model would be in the form of a grant as opposed to a loan, which students had to previously pay back to NSFAS, some for years after graduating. “The increase in funding for 2018-19 will support 458 875 students to receive tuition bursaries. Based on historical data and the enrolment targets for 2018- 19, it is estimated that more than 90% of TVET college students will benefit.” Pandor said the department had instructed all universities to keep within their enrolment targets and determine how many students they enrolled and in which fields of study. More than 400 000 potential students applied for NSFAS this year. The NSFAS is still in the process of integrating the registration data from institutions with its own funding eligibility data. “The NSFAS will be able to confirm final numbers once all registered students who match the financial eligibility criteria submit the requisite information. I am concerned at reports that many students who have submitted are not yet receiving their allocation,” Pandor said. lillians@thenewage.co.za -LILLIAN SELAPISA