WITH the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (Nersa) hearings on Eskom’s 33% tariff increase application due to kick off in Cape Town early next week, the pressure is building up to what could be the proverbial last straw which breaks both Eskom’s and consumers’ backs. Ted Blom, partner at the Mining & Energy Advisory, says the Energy Expert Coalition representing 80000 citizens from nine provinces will be present at the provincial electricity tariff negotiations. Electricity users, already preparing for an increase of 33% from Eskom’s regulating clearing account claims, might have to drastically curtail usage as they face another barrage of electricity price hikes later this year. In documentation submitted by Eskom to Nersa, Eskom says it wants to recover a whopping R66m due to over-estimation of electricity sales and overspend on coal, gas and imports from 2014 to 2016. Blom has been extremely critical of Eskom’s exorbitant increases, which he believes are just another ploy to fund corruption. Blom was the first analyst to blow the whistle on Eskom’s corrupt practices back in 2009, some of which were confirmed by the public protector in 2016. During testimony to Parliament at the 2017 Public Enterprises hearings over Eskom corruption, Blom again took Parliament and the public through the long road of corruption, which began in 2001. Notwithstanding firm evidence provided by Blom, the government has elected to only backdate the commission of enquiry to 2010. “This conveniently excludes three of the biggest and most corrupt deals in the history of South Africa – the contracts to build Medupi, Kusile and Ingulla,” Blom said. “The cumulative cost of these corrupt deals have cost South Africa and the electricity consumer more than R250bn more than it should have – and construction is only about half way. The public cannot be expected to fund this through tariff hikes,” Blom said. Consumers and businesses are already feeling the pinch with the additional fuel levy increases and 15% VAT on goods. Christo Botes, executive director at Business Partners Limited says that these increases could present a cash flow challenge for some small business owners who have been carrying a serious burden. On April 1, 95 ULP and LRP petrol increased by 72c/litre, 93 ULP and LRP petrol increased by 69c/litre and diesel increased by 65.20c/litre. Electricity prices increased by an average of 5.23% on April 1 this year for direct Eskom customers and will increase by an average of 7.32% on July 1 for municipalities. Blom has called for support and input from electricity users as he prepares for presentations and arguments to Nersa at upcoming hearings in all nine provinces. Concerned businesses and individuals are encouraged to provide input at the Energy Expert Coalition’s website. thelman@thenewage.co.za -THELMA NGOMA