THE leader of the Thembezinhle Temple of the Shembe church, Phinda “Ilanga lokuKhanya” Shembe, has married his second wife following their victory over the eBuhleni faction in the Pietermaritzburg High Court on Friday. The double celebrations were held yesterday at his family home in the kwesaKwaBiyela in Empangeni, northern KwaZulu-Natal. Nkululeko Mthethwa, spokesperson for the Thembezinhle faction, said Friday’s victory was further sweetened by the marriage of Ilanga lokuKhanya to his second wife known as maDuma. “They met last October at the Thembezinhle Temple,” Mthethwa said. Mthethwa said that this had been a premonition of the late inkosi Vela “Imisebeyelanga” Shembe, who had told his older brother that he had received a message that it was time for him to take a second wife. Imisebeyelanga died two months later in December, having nominated Ilanga lokuKhanya to be his successor. “Just because he (Imisebeyelanga) is no longer follow his spiritual instruction. It is a very happy moment for us and the inkosi, which we refuse to be tainted by entertaining discussing what’s next following Friday’s victory, we are celebrating. “Enforcing the court order and unfreezing accounts will follow once we have spoken to our lawyers this week. Once that is done and everything is transferred under the name of inkosi (Ilanga lokuKhanya) then we’ll take things from there,” Mthethwa said. Meanwhile, the eBuhleni faction of the Nazareth Baptist Church said they’ve yet to make a decision on whether to appeal the leadership issue any further, after the side lost in the Pietermaritzburg High Court on Friday. In his ruling, Judge Isaac Madondo found in favour of the Thembezinhle faction reaffirming the 2016 Durban High Court ruling that the late inkosi Vela “Imisebeyelanga” Shembe was the rightful heir of the Shembe church. The church, boasting more than 2 million followers and having amassed wealth estimated at more than R100m, has been at the centre of a power struggle since 2011. The eBuhleni faction led by inkosi Mduduzi “Unyazi lweZulu” Shembe, which once again lost out to the Thembezinhle Temple was granted leave to appeal on Friday. Ebuhleni Temple spokesperson Lizwi Mncwabe said they were still not certain of the future of the appeal. “We are still waiting for instruction from the church on that matter, so I can’t comment much about it,” he said. Imisebeyelanga passed away during the seven-year court battle over leadership of the church. Unyazi lweZulu had appealed the October 2016 ruling which saw Imisebeyelanga being the rightful leader of the Shembe church. On Friday that ruling was upheld in the Pietermaritzburg High Court. –SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO|sibongisenim@thenewage.co.za