A HUGE chunk of funding for universities goes to former white universities rather previously disadvantaged universities, the latest Annual Survey of Philanthropy in Higher Education (Aspihe) has found. The University of the Western Cape‚ University of Cape Town‚ University of the Free State‚ University of the Witwatersrand‚ University of KwaZulu-Natal and the University of Stellenbosch received the lion’s share of R1.47bn in 2016. Universities SA CEO Prof Ahmed Bawa said this was not surprising as most of these universities were research-focused and the bulk of the money is meant for research. “Most local donors have connections with the socalled white universities because some of them may have attended there so it would be easier for them to donate money there,” Bawa said. The survey covered 12 universities and found that as much as 90% of the funding went to traditional higher education institutions as opposed to other institutions such as universities of technology. Based on 2016 figures, the survey found that universities benefited from donations amounting to R1.63bn in 2016‚ an increase of nearly R1bn over the past four years. Local donors have also increased over the past four years accounting for 90% of all donors and 56% of the total funding. International donors contributed 44% of the philanthropic income but comprised only 10% of all donors. “South African philanthropy seems to be showing signs of good health. The private sector has increased its contributions dramatically from R94m in 2013 to R235m in 2016, while income from local private donors increased very significantly from R72m to more than R500m over four years,” Aspihe researcher Dr Sean Jones said. “The historical over-reliance of the South African higher education sector on international donors and grantmakers has begun to diminish, although there remains considerable support and goodwill among foreign donor agencies towards higher education institutions in this country.” Bawa said this was an important new development and a good indication that change was taking place. “This is also important because it means we can open up the space and attract alumni from previously disadvantaged universities to donate,” bBwa said. The top-funded university received R369m from 2 400 philanthropists and the least funded university received only R2m from 10 donors. Bawa said most of the money donated would probably go to medical research funding, particularly towards HIV. He said the report was an indication that more conversations around improving previously disadvantaged universities to attract more donors. “Maybe we can look at building the capacity of other universities and asking questions about the institutions’ alumni. These are conversations that must be had,” he said. -LILLIAN SELAPISA|lillians@thenewage.co.za