Celebrity fitness trainer Sbahle Mpisane will be among the 9 410 graduates who will be conferred with degrees in various fields this week as graduation season kicks off at the University of KwaZulu-Natal (UKZN) from today. The well-known daughter of Sbu and Shauwn Mpisane will graduate with a bachelors degree in housing and town planning. She is among the 62.2% of female graduates at UKZN this year. The fitness guru, who has cemented her name in creating her brand as a personal trainer and boot camp programme fitness bunny, said it had been a tough road to success with her busy schedule posing great challenges to her studies. “I don’t know how many times I contemplated quitting my studies because I was so busy,” she said. “Getting this degree has been a surprise to me more than anyone. After every negative thought, I always reminded myself why I needed to complete my degree. “Juggling my social life, work life and private life was challenging but I always knew my priorities and school always came first before anything. The thought of making my parents proud was my biggest drive.” The ceremonies in Durban and Pietermaritzburg started yesterday and will end next Tuesday. It will see students graduate in various fields in the four colleges – agriculture, engineering and science, health sciences, humanities and law and management studies. Of the 9 410 graduates, 259 will receive doctorates. A total of 112 students will be awarded their degrees summa cum laude and 322 cum laude. This will be the first graduation ceremony that will be presided by the newly-appointed chancellor, chief justice Mogoeng-Mogoeng. Expressing gratitude to her support system, Mpisane thanked her parents who inspired her to study towards her housing and town planning degree because she initially wanted to join the family business in construction. She said that she believed that the college of humanities provided a grounding environment and always encourages one to be their own individual. “My advice to other undergraduates is that they must always find a balance that works for them. Have fun while studying and your academic years will feel shorter,” Mpisane said. UKZN graduates will not be the only ones celebrating this week as graduation
fever has also hit the Mangosuthu University of Technology from today. Among those receiving honorary degrees will be IT giant and founder of MicroVision, Colin Ralph Fourie. He will be honoured by the faculty of natural sciences in recognition of developing his own software in addition to being entrusted with building systems at the core of many business entities. sibongisenim@thenewage.co.za