The City of Johannesburg has demanded an apology from The Star newspaper for a misleading report on the city’s finances featured on the paper on Wednesday. The City says the publication’s report breaches Chapter 1 of the Press Code which states that media shall report news truthfully, accurately and fairly. In the report, the City of Joburg is alleged to have racked up about R3.1 billion on irregular expenditure. This is reported to be as a result of the city failing to comply with its rules. The report further indicates that the city’s audit committee has warned that this was preventing it from running a clean administration. The paper quoted the Auditor-General’s Kimi report which: “The majority of the disclosed irregular expenditure was caused by non-compliance with the municipal supply-chain management regulations”. The city of says that the paper had sent questions to it but did not afford it enough time to respond and give sufficient information that was required. “The journalist who wrote the article contacted Finance MMC Funzela Ngobeni at 18:00 pm yesterday evening and submitted questions for response at 18:52 pm. This was clearly inadequate opportunity for the City to put its side on record and correct a number of misleading pieces of information in the article,” the City of Joburg said. The city has therefore written to the Editor of the newspaper to indicate the “falsehoods and misleading” elements contained in the article. In the even where the paper fails to apologise, “we will be laying a complaint with the Press Ombudsman.” In clarifying the matter raised in the article, the city said that had the paper afforded its officials an opportunity to respond, the following facts that lack the article would have been provided. 1. The 2016/17 Financial year under review saw a decline in unauthorised expenditure from R692 million in 2015/16 to R502 million in 2016/17. The figure of unauthorised expenditure quoted in the article incorrectly refers to R675 million. 2. Due to the City’s efforts to investigate cases of maladministration, R119 million of this has been identified by the City in the audit process. 3. This is reflected in the statement made by the AG in which he recorded in the audit report “The tone of the political and administrative leadership is a positive one that can drive good governance and clean administration. 4. The R3.1 Billion figure of irregular expenditure refers to a historical accumulation of yearly identified unauthorised expenditure from previous years, under the ANC’s leadership of the City. In the 2016/17 financial year under review, R1.02 billion in irregular expenditure was incurred, and not the R3.1 billion figure quoted in the headline and article. The city added that a number of issues raised in the article are the result of years of systemic failures and lack of accountability. -TNA Reporter