Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi has described SABC radio talk show host Sakina Kamwendo’s ‘removal’ as an act of ‘white supremacy’. “There is only one word for a replacement of black female tried & tested talent, with an average white man: WHITE SUPREMACY. What must black women do to be affirmed? They already are talented, work hard, YET they simply get tossed away to make way for WHITE MEN? Pathetic” tweeted Ndlozi in response to the reports on Kamwendo’s on-air incidence. The radio show host was taken off air on Friday during her breakfast show. It is alleged that producers were instructed to immediately take her off air and fill the remainder of her slot with music. Following the incidents, South African National Editors’ Forum (Sanef) said that it would engage with the SABC on the matter. “The media industry should be supporting all women in this sector – and especially highly competent, courageous black women such as @SakinaKamwendo. We need to ensure the diversity of voices in the industry. SANEF will be engaging the SABC on the matter,” wrote Sanef. Meanwhile, the SABC has since clarified the incidence saying that the host remains at the SABC on a different slot. SABC Chief Operations Officer Chris Maroleng said that Kamwendo’s contract had not been terminated. ‘It is also important to deal with the perception that Sakina Kamwendo contract with the SABC has been terminated. Prior to the programme yesterday, she was engaged by news management on a new slot on SAfm Radio and both parties have signed a new contract,’ he said Maroleng said that Friday’s decision concerning Kamwendo was made by station management SAfm Radio, not by executive management or himself. “In this regard, Sakina Kamwendo new contract and new slot have been signed by herself and her line management. We as executive management are surprised that events have unfolded in such an unfortunate manner at SAfm Radio,” he said. H added that the management remained “committed to transforming the SABC into a world-class African Public Broadcaster and we shall do so in a manner that is in line with the highest standards of good governance.” -TNA Reporter