SCORES of university students have been left in limbo due to unpaid fees and missing allowances. With less than two weeks before exams start, some students who successfully applied for the National Students Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) have not received their prescribed study material allowance while others are battling to get their meal allowances. A Unisa student who asked not to be named said she applied for the NSFAS last year in November but she has not received any money for fees or books. “I have been depending on other students for books to complete assignments while waiting. My status on the website says: ‘Funding Eligible but Awaiting Confirmation of Academic Admission’. “When I called NSFAS yesterday I was told I am successfully funded but they do not have a turnaround time, students have to wait for an SMS to sign an LAF form,” the student said. Another student, Vennetious Motswi, said since January his status has been saying he has been approved for funding, but no payment has been made. The 21-year-old IT student said he is going to write exams on May 22 without ever having a textbook for this year. “I went to the Unisa campus to enquire and they said they will contact me, but they still haven’t. This is going to cost me as I cannot afford to buy the books, now I must just wait for the university to do something. I went there three times to ask and I was told to wait for the SMS,” he said. Motswi said he was told to pay a registration fee of R1 950 to Unisa. However, NSFAS has pointed a finger at the institution, saying R34m was disbursed to Unisa students as of March this year. Spokesperson for the organisation Kagisho Mamabolo said NSFAS had paid up-front allowances in respect of all registration information received from the institution. He said they were yet to receive additional registration data from Unisa. “We have been in contact with the institution in order to finalise their funded list. Unisa students do not receive food allowances unless it’s preselected/pre-funded students. NSFAS has done advance payments to all sBux institutions which Unisa is part of, as a result we have made payments of R2 500 per student towards book allowances. As soon as additional funding lists and approved registration data is made available to sBux, additional disbursement files will be prepared and vouchers disbursed,” he said. Mamabolo said the delay to pay allowances was due to the institution not being able to submit required information to NSFAS on time, and as accurately as possible. “90% of applications have been processed and the organisation is in the process of finishing the remaining 10%. We have set a deadline for all outstanding admissions’ files from TVET colleges and registration files from universities, in order to conclude all funding decisions for 2018,” he said. Mamabolo said NSFAS has approved and confirmed funding to 173000 applicants who are first-time students in higher education this year. “We have received a total of 410000 applications for this year, from first-time entrants. There is a total of 164 301 students who qualify for NSFAS funding but have not yet sent NSFAS their proof of admission at a public university or TVET college. As NSFAS we took it upon ourselves and circulated the full list to all institutions to identify any students that could have been excluded in the previous files submitted to NSFAS.” All students identified through this process will be provisionally funded. Mamabolo said in January an upfront total of R1.9bn was paid to all institutions to cover student registration fees, books and other essential allowances. “The payment amounted to at least 13% of a provisional allocation for 2018, which each institution may get from NSFAS. This was done in recognition that registered students shouldn’t be inconvenienced by delays such as finalising of registration processes by the institution and a new bursary agreement by NSFAS,” he said. South African Students Congress’s Buthanani Goba has called on NSFAS to be monitored properly, saying the scheme has collapsed. Provincial secretary Buthanani Goba said students had become casualties of the flawed processes between NSFAS and institutions. “In our view, NSFAS has collapsed because there is poor monitoring. For instance, students are expected to attend 75% of their classes for them to be able to write their exams but you have a situation where their travel allowance is only sent to them in December. It’s one of the reasons we think perhaps there should be a new model of how we monitor NSFAS and its allocation to students because now, it is failing,” he said. -SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE