A 38-YEAR-OLD man who this week pleaded guilty to being in possession of 56000 pornographic child images will be sentenced in the George Magistrate’s Court next month. Tyrone James was arrested at a routine roadblock in The Wilderness in George. During the police search of his car they found tik and dagga. When he asked to call his mother, an alert police officer noticed an image relating to child pornography on the screen. The phone was immediately seized and more footage and images were found. But that was just the tip of the iceberg, police said. The police then went to search his home in Kingfisher Close, Wilderness where they confiscated 11 hard drives, a computer and CDs containing thousands of pornographic images. In his plea agreement in the George Magistrate’s Court, James admitted that he was in possession of about 56 000 images of pornographic images of children between two and 18 and 240 videos containing child pornography. He also told the court that he never manufactured or distributed the material and that this was for his personal use only. The images and videos found in James’s possession by far exceeded the child pornographic material found in possession of convicted computer and engineer from Plettenberg Bay, William Beale, 39. In November last year he was handed 15-years direct imprisonment by the Thembalethu Regional Court in George. Women and Men Against Child Abuse (WMACA) said the conviction of the man who admitted being in possession of about 56000 child pornographic images should reflect on the horrific crime that child sexual abuse is. Spokesperson Joanne Barrett said this after the brief appearance of James in the George Magistrate’s Court this week. He pleaded guilty to all charges and following his plea agreement, the matter was postponed to May 22 for a pre-sentencing report and report by a psychologist. “We, at WMACA trust the state will continue to hand out harsh jail sentences for people convicted in such cases. “A powerful message must be sent out to all vile perpetrators that if they continue hurting children they will face the full might of the law. Every image of child pornography is an appalling crime scene of a child being sexually violated,” Barrett said. vincentc@thenewage.co.za