THE National Editors’ Forum (Sanef) has challenged anyone who can substantiate allegations of journalists working as spies during the apartheid era to come forward. The media regulator has called for calm after a video went viral in which Winnie Madikizela-Mandela names journalists “doing the work of the apartheid security establishment including stracom (strategic communications)”. The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has accused Sanef of silence on the matter. The political party said that journalists had served in stratcom to destroy anti-apartheid activists. Sanef said it noted the debate about how media were used to peddle falsehoods to discredit anti-apartheid activists. The EFF alleged that 40 journalists were on the payroll of the former apartheid special branch police to destroy icons such as Madikizela-Mandela. The red berets asked that these journalists come out, confess and ask for forgiveness for being a part of stratcom. Sanef said the debate has erupted as the country “mourns the death of Mama Winnie Madikizela-Mandela” and called for “cool heads” and “a sober debate”. “In the course of the debate about her legacy and experience as a free dom fighter, some journalists have been accused of being spies who tried to tarnish her name by publishing stories planted by the apartheid government. “In the absence of evidence, the circulation of unsubstantiated rumours are irresponsible, dangerous and extremely damaging to media freedom and the media environment as a whole. “Further we believe it puts journalists at serious risk of physical harm and having their credibility unnecessarily questioned,” Sanef said. Meanwhile, EFF has denied reports that the party is in talks with the ANC. “The reports are malicious firstly because they are using EFF’s attendance of Mama Winnie Mandela’s funeral as a sign that the EFF and ANC are working together. This is tabloid reporting, gossip,” the EFF said. “We condemn it and reiterate that there are no talks between the ANC and EFF,” the party said. However, the party said it was commendable that both political formations could be in one stadium and conduct a funeral peacefully to the end. -HLONI MASHIGO