SIPHELELE Ntshangase has failed to live up to the expectations and hype he got when he joined Kaizer Chiefs from Baroka FC in January. A lot was expected from the talented midfielder, but in the 19 appearances he has made for the club, he hasn’t contributed much compared to what many would have hoped. A man who promised a “killer” pass as something which was missing in the years when Chiefs struggled, Ntshangase was first to admit that he was not happy with his contribution, but asked for more game time. “I’m not really happy (with my contribution) because I didn’t get more game time, but I’m still working hard,” he said. “Up until the coach gives me a chance, then we can talk about how I feel when the team is not doing well. “Most of the time I’m on the bench and I can see that the team is struggling, but remember the team is not about me.” Coach Steve Komphela highlighted the reasons for the player failing to adjust at a big club like Chiefs last week, but Ntshangase felt that was not the case. He felt he should he be given enough chances, then people can see the best of him. “I won’t take it like that (failing to adjust) but it is the way he (Komphela) sees it. But (joining Chiefs) didn’t put any pressure because I always wanted to play for the club, so given the opportunity to play, that’s where I can show my talent.” The 24 year old said he was told to work on his weaknesses by Komphela to be considered more for the team on match days. “The coach spoke to me on where to improve and I’m trying to fix that. A complete player must defend and attack, so I think that’s one thing that is lacking for me.” The former Black Leopards and Baroka player knows that he needs to deliver and help the team to win their last possible remaining trophy, the Nedbank Cup. First, they will entertain Free State Stars in the semifinal of the competition before thinking of advancing to the final. “What it is important is to win. The team is not about Ntshangase but the brand. That’s what important,” he said. “I will be very happy to win silverware because if you look, for the past three seasons, the team has not won anything. “If I get the opportunity, I will use it.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@ thenewage.co.za