THE CPI inflation for the month of March surprised on the upside as it slowed to a seven year low to 3.8% from 4% recorded in February, beating market expectations. Economists expected inflation to pick up slighlty beyond February’s data, Stats SA revealed yesterday. On a month-on-month basic inflation eased to 0.4% when compared to 0.8% recorded in February, but going forward is unlikely to keep the momentum given the commencing of petrol price hikes and weaker rand. According to the latest data from Stats SA, huge relief for consumers came from food and non-alcoholic beverages which decreased from 0.7 of a percentage point in February to 0.6 in March while alcoholic beverages and tobacco decreased from 0.4 to 0.3 of a percentage point. The latest lower-than-expected CPI inflation numbers for March, is the lowest figure since January 2011. “Inflation rate declined to its lowest level in seven years in March and the decline was well below consensus forecasts for a 4.1% outcome and even below our own more optimistic forecast of 3.9%. “The impact of the decline in fuel prices at the beginning of March was generally expected to hold down the inflation rate,” Econometrix economist Laura Campbell said. “However, what added to the downward pressure on inflation was a bigger than expected decline in inflation of both food and alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages,” Campbell said. She agreed that it was unlikely for this lowest level to be maintained, as April’s inflation figure will see a sharp increase back to above the 4.5% midpoint of the 3% to 6% official inflation target due to the one percentage point increase in the rate of VAT and the sharp increase in fuel prices in April and in all likelihood in May as well. “From a monetary policy perspective, therefore, the increase in the probability of further interest rate cuts emanating from the latest CPI numbers is likely to be marginal. “The Reserve Bank will no doubt have taken note of the fairly sharp increase in domestic workers’ wages, to an inflation rate of 5.6% in March, from 5.1% in February. As a result, this will allude to failure to suppress inflationary expectations through the rest of the economy,” she said. Campbell said that even if the inflation expectations survey was released at the time of the March monetary policy committee meeting of the Reserve Bank, showing some encouraging signs of lower inflationary expectations in the fourth quarter of last year, the fact of the matter is that the latest data on earnings increases suggests that one should not rely on the trend of inflation expectations necessarily being downward on a sustainable basis. “The Reserve Bank is also concerned about the possible acceleration of interest rate increases internationally. “With little certainty about a downward trajectory in the likely outcome for inflation next year and in the year thereafter, there is therefore no major increase in the likelihood of further interest rate relief over the remainder of the year,” she said. Other economists also said that the previous cut in petrol prices played a major role for March inflation, but it is most unfortunate that for April households commodity goods will start to rise again. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za