DEPUTY President David Mabuza will today lead the government’s 39th commemoration of Solomon Kalushi Mahlangu. Mabuza will visit the gallows at the Kgoši Mampuru II correctional facility in Tshwane where Mahlangu, a political activist, was executed 39 years ago. The execution provoked international protest and condemnation of South Africa’s apartheid policy. The deputy president, together with Cabinet ministers, deputy ministers and the Mahlangu family are expected to take the 52 steps to the gallows as they observe the re-enactment of Mahlangu’s final moments before execution. Later in the day, Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa will deliver a memorial lecture in honour of Mahlangu at the Vista Campus in Mamelodi. The Solomon Mahlangu Freedom College was established on a dilapidated farm in donated by the Tanzanian government to the ANC in 1979. The 5 000ha piece of land was located in the city of Morogoro, Tanzania in an area known as Mazimbu. Reddy Mampane was deployed by the ANC in 1973 to hold discussions with authorities in Tanzania when the ANC sought means to accommodate an ever increasing influx of youth who were fleeing the apartheid regime in South Africa to join the liberation effort. In 1975, led by Anna Abdullah, the Tanzanian government donated the old sisal farm to the ANC in Morogoro. ANC veterans testify this land was just bush when it was donated and that it was hard to see past the high weeds that infested the land. Denis Oswald, an activists who had just completed his studies on architecture through an ANC scholarship, was unperturbed by the sprawling bush and saw an opportunity. In 1979, as the first buildings were being completed and amidst international outcries from luminaries such as ES Reddy who chaired the Anti-apartheid Committee of the UN, Father Trevor Huddleston, former US president Jimmy Carter, former French president Valéry Giscard d’Estaing and many other governments, Solomon Mahlangu was sentenced to death. On completion of the school, it was decided that in remembrance, and in the spirit of Solomon Mahlangu, it was apt to name this historic institution that was also a beacon of international solidarity and collaboration as the Solomon Mahlangu Freedom College. kutullom@thenewage.co.za