SOUTH Africa’s rivalry with Fiji in the World Rugby Sevens Series season is taking on prominence for a number of factors. As the teams gear up for the Hong Kong Sevens that Fiji head to as defending champions, the Blitzbokke are fully aware of what a win will do for them and how much a loss will set them back. Despite still being in the lead on the overall standings by nine points, Neil Powell’s outfit are aware that on the Sevens circuit such a lead is small and teams like Fiji can overturn that at any moment. Other than fighting to remain top of the log, despite not having key and experienced players such as Seabelo Senatla, Kwagga Smith and Sikhumbuzo Notshe, the Blitzbokke will be looking to win their second tournament of the season. Powell’s side won the tournament in Dubai, with Fiji claiming two titles in Hamilton and Vancouver. When Fiji won the final last month, they beat the Blitzbokke in the semifinal and when they won the final in Hong Kong last year, they also beat the South Africans. This gives South Africa a lot to avenge, but the Blitzbokke must focus on making things gell with their young group of players who will rely on talented players like Zain Davids. For Davids and his teammates, the main factor is to start the tournament with a win against South Korea on Friday, before taking on Scotland and England later on the same day. “Normally the young guys bring the energy. It will be good to have that, but I have learned that everyone must bring that. A team full of energy will be hard to beat,” Davids said. “The most important aspect when we run out to face South Korea on Friday will be to play as we have trained. We need to trust our processes, trust one other and make sure we play for one other. If we do that, things will go well.” And playmaker Selvyn Davids is raring to go. “I made my debut here last year. Unfortunately I picked up an injury that ended the season for me, but it was a highlight in my career. “This time around I have tournaments under the belt and I will be urging the debutants to enjoy the moment. They are talented enough to make us a competitive side out there.” South Africa will need to do better in the last four tournaments if they are to stand any chance of defending the overall title that they won last season. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za