ANC Secretary-General Ace Magashule on Monday hit back at former Finance Minister Trevor Manuel after facing scathing criticism over the delays in converting Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s Brandfort home to into a museum. “What has he done when he was minister of finance? Why couldn’t he ensure that he honours and appreciates the life of comrade Winnie Madikizela-Mandela?” Magashule said in an interview with news channel ANN7. The retort came after Manuel last week, during a memorial service at St George’s Cathedral in Cape Town, in honour of the anti-apartheid stalwart, took direct aim at Magashule for the lack of progress in the project. Manuel criticised the former Free State premier for the delays experienced in the project. “Now he informs us that this minuscule project to restore the house to which our mother was banished has taken 11 years… And even when he talks about it, he says, well everyone knows that the money has not disappeared, where is the money?” Manuel said. Magashule has not taken kindly to the criticism and has questioned Manuel’s motive over what he viewed as a “badly timed” public rebuke. “Why now? Why do you use the platform of a memorial? I don’t want to use the platform of a memorial service to attack any other leader. So we are pleading as the ANC to say to everybody, members of the ANC, leaders, that we respect them and we are saying to them please remain disciplined.” Magashule has repeatedly denied any wrongdoing in the project. Ace Magashule should be ashamed of himself. After stealing the money to turn Mama Winnie Mandela’s home in Brandfort into a museum. He’s still talking nonsense. Fikile Mbalula on the other side looking at him like WTF is this criminal saying. #WinnieMandela pic.twitter.com/j1YIwEQETv — Man’s Not Barry Roux (@AdvBarryRoux) April 4, 2018 Last year, The New Age reported that the Independent Development Trust, which was responsible for the project, had run into problems with the contract. The contractor then came back in July 2014 and in August of the same year, the contractor issued a letter of suspension of work with a possible termination and by September that year, the contract was terminated due to contractual disagreements. A spokesperson for the trust, Lesego Mashigo, said the trust prioritised the project which included the restoration of the house and the clinic which was established by Madikizela-Mandela and was bombed by the apartheid government. The project that is worth R2.48m also includes a centre for the youth. -TNA Reporter