THE Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) intends keeping to its time lines for the finalisation of the revised mining charter despite the appeal by Minister Gwede Mantashe against a high court decision that the “once empowered always empowered” principle must be retained. Mining analysts have said the belated appeal would mean it will now be impossible for the department to complete its work on the charter and present it for comment by the end of next month. They say an appeal, plus a possible further appeal to the Constitutional Court, could take months, or even years. This would leave the industry in limbo. But the department’s Ayanda Shezi told The New Age the department was continuing with its ongoing consultations both in mining communities and among social partners regarding sticking points in the charter. “The minister is in Saldanha in the Western Cape consulting with communities in the area. It would be inappropriate to comment on the details of the ongoing discussions at this stage but the consultations will culminate in a mini mining summit where the mining charter will be presented before it is gazetted and finalised,” he said. The DMR said that it was after “careful consideration” that it decided to appeal the judgment. “The judgment has dire implications for the economic transformation imperatives of the Constitution, the mining sector and South Africa at large. It also has the potential of extending regulatory and policy uncertainty, and sterilisation of our mineral resources, with grave economic growth and employment implications,” the DMR said. “The department is concerned by the implications of the majority judgment on the attainment of the objective to sustainably transform South Africa’s mining industry by bringing in new entrants and empowering workers and communities in mining towns.” The North Gauteng High Court had earlier ruled that empowerment deals did not need to be “topped up” once a company had reached the 26% black ownership level and companies could not be penalised for falling below this level if black shareholders sold their shares to whites or foreigners. Peter Leon, partner and Africa co-chair at Herbert Smith Freehills, said the DMR’s decision to appeal was regrettable and the opportunity to speedily conclude the charter was now lost. “Any appeal is unlikely to be heard by the Supreme Court of Appeal until early next year and any decision by that court is likely to be appealed in turn to the Constitutional Court. This means that any imminent conclusion over the mining charter negotiations is unlikely. This is not conducive to regulatory certainty.” The Chamber of Mines yesterday told The New Age it was “reviewing the specified grounds of appeal”. Lebogang Molemi, a mining analyst, welcomed the decision to appeal, saying if the government was to allow the court’s decision to pass unchallenged, it would be a blow against radical economic transformation. “Clearly, there will be no charter ready by next month as Mantashe promised. The court battle between the government and the mining industry has just begun,” he said. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za