The spokesperson for the City of Johannesburg Emergency Management Services, Robert Mulaudzi says they are concerned about continued attacks on emergency services officials that are once again on the rise. “We are concerned about the escalation of the incidents because it seems like we are having these incidents on a weekly basis now,” said Mulaudzi to PowerFM on Wednesday. This comes after an incident where an EMS ambulance from the Northview Fire Station in Johannesburg was shot at while paramedics were attending to an assault case in Sandringham. Meanwhile, other paramedics were attacked by community members while attending to an incident over the weekend in Eldorado Park. Mulaudzi said that in most cases, paramedics were caught in the crossfire while attending to incidents where people were fighting amongst each other. “In both the incidents people were fighting each other and we had to come and assist whoever was injured and in the process, we were attacked while we were rendering the service,” he said Mulaudzi urged residents to protect EMS personnel while they are rendering their services. “We are serving the communities and the people who are attacking us are the people who are within the community so the members of the community will be the one who will be able to identify them. If they don’t do that, we will have what we call no-go areas where we are not going to able service those areas. The very same community members in those areas who are not saying anything about it are the ones who are going to suffer,” he said. attacks on EMS personnel have also been reported in the Western Cape in the past months. Mulaudzi said that they were not aware of the reason why the officials were being attacked. paramedics recently called on the police to offer them protection while attending to areas that are dangerous. @CityofJoburgEMSAmbulance from Northview Fire Station was shot at while Paramedics were attending to an assault case in Sandringham no injuries to the Paramedics @CityofJoburgZA @CoJPublicSafety,Residents are urged to protect EMS personnel while rendering this essential services pic.twitter.com/yESBssHc4U — Cojems Spokesperson (@RobertMulaudzi) April 21, 2018  -TNA Reporter