Chaos and bickering in the council chambers of the Nelson Mandela Bay municipality on Tuesday led the collapse of the second ditch attempt to oust Mayor Athol Trollip through a motion of no confidence. Fresh from being elected as DA federal chairman at the weekend, Trollip has once again survived a plan by the EFF to remove him after speaker Jonathan Lawack permanently adjourned Tuesday’s sitting. Council proceedings were marred by rampant heckling and councillors not providing each other with a chance to speak. At a stage, DA provincial leader Ngaba Bhanga was prevented from continuing his speech paying tribute to Mama Winnie Mandela after ANC councillor Makhi Feni accused him of killing two girls. “I asked you at the beginning that we conduct this council in a fashion that sends out a positive message about ourselves to the public,” an irate Lawack said. The opposition in the Nelson Mandela Bay council is deliberately destructive and can only be described as disgraceful. They refused to allow the DA cllr Nqaba Bhanga to pay tribute to Mama Winnie Mandela. What kind of Democracy do we have under this behavior. — Athol Trollip (@AtholT) April 10, 2018 NMB MMC and DA Eastern Cape Provincial Leader Nqaba Bhanga condemns the chaos caused by the ANC/EFF/UDM alliance in Council while he was trying to pay tribute to Mama #WinnieMandela
On behalf of the DA.#TrollipVote #SaveNMB pic.twitter.com/dAHflMKyc6 — DA Eastern Cape (@DAEasternCape) April 10, 2018 Lawack was accused by ANC and EFF councillors of suspending council rules which also led to further bickering and shouting. Last month, the motion of no confidence was postponed after the EFF accused Lawack of collapsing the meeting. Similar to the events on Tuesday the call by the opposition to amend the order of the agenda led to much bickering in the meeting. Last month, the EFF tabled the motion of no confidence in Trollip, saying that it’s their way of punishing DA for not backing its motion to have a section of the Constitution amended to allow for the expropriation of land without compensation. -TNA Reporter