“I do not believe Winnie Mandela killed my son,” his mother Mananki, 62, said, three decades after Stompie Seipei died. She will be among the hundreds of people who will attend struggle stalwart Winnie Madikizela-Mandela’s funeral in Johannesburg. The mother was speaking from her house in Parys where a portrait of her son Moeketsi “Stompie” Seipei is displayed on the fridge. He was 14 years old when he was killed at the height of the apartheid brutality. For years, Madikizela-Mandela had been accused of being involved in the teenager’s murder, despite her being acquitted on appeal but yesterday Seipei said she had known for the past 21 years that the former first lady was innocent. “I have forgiven whoever killed my child and I met with Mam Winnie in 1997 inside a toilet without anyone knowing. We spoke. I know she did not kill Stompie. “I remember when we were together she looked at me and said ‘you really look like your son and nobody can take that away from you’,” Seipei said. Talking about her son, she said that he did not go far to school but he was an intelligent child. “He was a very smart kid who got involved in politics at a very young age, in 1985. He was also arrested at the time. In January 1989 I heard that my child had died after he fell from a bicycle and then I was told that he was killed by Winnie Mandela but I did not believe it. “On February 16, police came and took us to Brixton then we went to Diepkloof mortuary and they asked me to identify my child and I did,” she said. “I looked at his birthmark and other scars that I knew he had. I said Stompie did not have hair at the back and he had scars on his face. I looked at him where I knew he had symbols that only I knew of and they told me to come back alone the next day. “When I went back they told me that they managed to get his fingerprints and that indeed it was him,” she said, going on to say that on July 15 of every year, the people of Parys always commemorate Stompie’s death in support of his family and his contribution to the struggle. Earlier, Free State Premier Sisi Ntombela who visited the late Madikizela-Mandela’s Brandfort house where she lived after being banished there by the apartheid authorities in 1977, said the nation had lost a pillar of the struggle against gender inequalities. “The spear has fallen, the fearless, capable and committed men and women must rise up and not allow MadikizelaMandela to die but to multiply her spirit to continue in the country,” Ntombela said. This as the provincial ANC was preparing for a memorial service at the house today. The ANC provincial interim structure coordinator, William Bulwane, said the late stalwart was declared the most dangerous woman by the apartheid state, which banished her to Brandfort to remove her from her political base but she turned the tables on them because the rural area became a new site of struggle for her. “It will always be our insistence that the history of this great country cannot be written without mentioning her name, a fearless fighter to the end, a woman who embodied great character and compassion for people and her desire to see a democratic South Africa, in which all could live side by side,” Bulwane said. Meanwhile, former president Kgalema Motlanthe who addressed a special church service at St Mary’s Cathedral in Johannesburg yesterday described her as fearless. “Mama Winnie was a very courageous, brave person. She was prepared to risk her own comfort and so did Madiba, her husband. But they chose to take the fight on behalf of the downtrodden and oppressed people of our country,” he said. beckers@thenewage.co.za