DA spokesperson on health in KwaZulu-Natal Imran Keeka on Monday said he would write to the premier, asking him to remove health MEC Sibongiseni Dhlomo from his post. Keeka has accused Dhlomo of spreading fake news by claiming that a new radiotherapy machine was being installed at Addington Hospital while the machine had not even reached South Africa. Keeka said, according to highly placed sources, the boat carrying the machine was only expected to dock in Durban on Monday and it is not even clear if it had docked. He said given the province’s ongoing oncology crisis, that continues to claim lives every day, there could be no place for false information such as that being peddled by the MEC. “It is both deeply disappointing and insensitive that he should falsely raise the hopes and expectations of KZN’s cancer sufferers in an attempt to bolster his own image as the so-called savior of cancer patients. This must surely be the lowest possible level that he can stoop to,” Keeka said. He said Dhlomo’s claims also came after he himself admitted to the province’s health portfolio committee on 9 March that the machine would not be operational by 9 April, as promised and that it would only be working by the end of July. Keeka said, apart from writing to the premier, he would also raise the issue with the DA leadership in the provincial legislature as it was now obvious that the Press Ombudsman should also investigate after the SABC and a national newspaper reported on Dhlomo’s lies. “The MEC’s reputation is already in ruins, not only from his refusal to account to the people of KZN, the legislature and the South African Human Rights Commission over the province’s oncology crisis but even more so for the many false commitments he has made when it comes to getting this critical service up and running again.” “No amount of news fake or otherwise is going to save him after a decade of mismanagement under an equally uncaring ANC leadership. The time has come for him to go.” -TNA Reporter