MURDER accused Sandile Mantsoe yesterday publicly spoke for the first time about his girlfriend Karabo Mokoena’s death – denying everything. Claims of investigators asking for bribes, suicide and shoddy work by the police were just some of the defences used when he testified in a trial-withina-trial to determine whether or not he confessed to murdering Mokoena. The trial-within-a-trial came after the accused denied a confession made to Capt Bheki Mhlongo at a police station soon after his arrest. Mhlongo said after he arrested Mantsoe, he then asked him if he really did not know where his girlfriend was. “He said no. I therefore started questioning him about what we saw on the footage at the Sky apartments in Sandton where Mantsoe lived,” Mhlongo said. “He admitted that he had killed her. He said he burnt her body at Sandringham, east of Johannesburg. I stood up to get a form so that I could document his confession but when I came back he did not want to speak or sign the form.” Mokoena, 22, disappeared in April last year. After a massive police and social media search for her, Mokoena’s charred remains were discovered in a shallow grave in Lyndhurst on May 10 last year. She had been burnt beyond recognition and her remains put in a rubbish bin. Police discovered a CCTV footage that showed Mantsoe and Mokoena entering his apartment and on the same night, him leaving the building with a wheelie bin. While Mantsoe admitted to being interviewed by Mhlongo after his arrest, he denied confessing and claimed the investigating officer offered to make the matter disappear. “He told me that he could see that I am a nice boy working hard for myself. He did not tell me about my rights and he said I should not worry about anything if I give him something small. “He said I must relax, I will not get into trouble. I told Mhlongo that I did not kidnap anyone,” Mantsoe said. Mantsoe said on that day, he did not know why he was at the police station because he had done nothing wrong. However, he admitted to the court that he had removed the body of the deceased and had done something unlawful. The court also asked if he had been told about Mokoena being missing and his response was yes. Sgt Matshidiso Maseko, who is stationed at the domestic violence and missing persons unit, agreed to being informed as such by Mhlongo because she was the one heading the investigation. She had received a call from Mokoena’s mother who reported her daughter missing. State prosecutor Mike Hlatshwayo’s submission was that Mantsoe did confess to killing the deceased but was now denying it. “There is nothing Mhlongo was going to gain from accusing Mantsoe. He has no reason to make this up,” Hlatshwayo said. The trial continues today. -SISANDA MADWANTSI|news@thenewage.co.za