IF THE Kaizer Chiefs clash against Free State Stars in the Nedbank Cup semifinal in Durban was Luc Eymael’s audition for the Chiefs job, then the Belgian passed with flying colours. Stars coach Eymael was the man to put the final nail in former Chiefs coach Steve Komphela’s coffin by not only beating him 2-0 and dumping Chiefs out of the competition, but also criticised Komphela’s tactics in the post-match conference. The two coaches were not on good speaking terms heading into the semi-final on Saturday since rumorus broke that Eymael could be replacing Komphela at Chiefs. But following Eymael’s victory over Komphela on Saturday, the Belgian said Chiefs played right into his team’s hands as Stars went on to reach their first cup final in more than two decades. “I only know one coach in the world who can play a fantastic 3-5-2 and that is Antonio Conte (Chelsea)‚“ Eymael said. “For me‚ he is the only one in the world who can do 3-5-2. That’s my thinking. You will think that I’m arrogant but I never lost in my life against someone playing 3-5-2. We knew that the wing backs‚ when they are going up‚ you can catch them fast on the counter attack and are directly one-on-one with the centre backs‚ who are not really quick. “We took advantage of that and we were clinical in the box‚ especially in the first half. Our plan of action was to absorb the pressure of Chiefs and counter. It was an easy plan.” Two first half goals from Harris Tchilimbou were enough to send Ea Lla Koto to their first cup final since 1999, when they lost to Mamelodi Sundowns in the then Rothmans Cup. Eymael achieved this in his first season as a coach. What is more remarkable is that he did it with players who were called over the hill or average by many PSL teams including Chiefs. But Eymael managed to turn the like of Rooi Mahamutsa, Pulus Masehe, Siphelele Mthembu, Patrick Phungwayo and Thela Ngobeni into a group of fighters hungry for success. “Thela Ngobeni made some fantastic saves. I think we deserved to win but we had to fight for it.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thewage.co.za