FORMER SA Airways (SAA) chairperson Dudu Myeni has taken on Parliament’s portfolio committee on state-owned enterprises, condemning the committee for treating her as one who is guilty without ever being charged or convicted of anything. In an exclusive interview with The New Age, Myeni yesterday vowed to submit her doctor’s note explaining the condition that prevents her from availing herself for questioning before the Parliamentary inquiry into the mismanagement of state funds in state-owned enterprises. “I’m not going to go against my doctors orders to go run to Parliament. “I’m not guilty of anything and I’m in good understanding of my rights as a citizen of this republic. If certain people have political gripes with me and they want to use the Parliament to settle them, the onus is on them to prove whatever they allege,” Myeni said. This comes as Parliament piles pressure on Myeni to appear before the portfolio committee on state-owned enterprises so that it can wrap up its work on the inquiry into state capture. The committee moved to write to the Speaker of the National Assembly to discuss possible steps to be taken should Myeni fail to appear. However, Myeni has stuck to her original script, maintaining that she was sick and that she was now prepared to deliver her doctor’s note to acting committee chairperson Zukiswa Rantho. She said she would ensure that the note be hand delivered to the committee to diminish the chances of potential leaks to the media. Responding to a question on whether she was playing hardball with the committee, Myeni said she had no qualms about appearing before the committee but would do so at the right time. “I’ve been communicating with the acting chairperson of the inquiry honourable Rantho. I have also informed them formally that I will avail myself but for the dates that they had invited me, I informed them that I was not well. “I’ve been to Parliament before, I’ve been treated like a criminal in the past. “It does not worry me. I have not stolen anything from anyone,” Myeni said. However, Rantho said Myeni’s defiance could warrant arrest after she, Duduzane Zuma and the Gupta brothers could not be tracked for receipt of summons. “We are going to discuss how to take this forward now that the summons has been issued and nobody took the summons. “Dudu Myeni’s summons was placed in her main gate. We are going to involve law enforcement officers,” Rantho said. Late yesterday civil society organisation and lobby group Black Caucus entered the fray slamming Parliament for “persecuting only black people”. “It’s amazing that 24 years into democracy we still have a Parliament that is used to run personal agendas. “The persecution of black leaders is evident. Parliament didn’t supoena Marcus Jooste for the biggest economic scandal of the century because they’re rich white people. “Parliament must be an independent house, not used for the political mileage of individuals” the group said. -SIFISO MAHLANGU AND BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@thenewage.co.za sifisom@thenewage.co.za