THE Department of Higher Education has sent out a stern warning to universities found to be involved in corrupt practices and called on anyone with any evidence of such practices to blow the whistle on wrong doers. Minister Naledi Pandor said the department was always ready to accept “substantiated information” relating to improper conduct and corruption at public universities. “The department’s first approach on any corruption will be to communicate with the council and/or management of the affected institution and request it to investigate the matter and provide feedback to the department,” Pandor said. She was replying to oral questions in the national council of provinces on whether her department was taking any actions to eliminate corrupt practices at the Cape Peninsula University of Technology (CPUT) residences. “Should there be evidence of any corrupt practices at CPUT, this should be brought to my attention and the department through the correct administrative processes. Any specific interventions that may be required as a result of such information received would be informed by the prescripts of the Higher Education Act,” she said. Last month the parliamentary portfolio on higher education conducted an oversight visit at the CPUT and were told that the residence system at the institution was riddled with corruption from top to bottom. “The act gives specific roles, responsibilities and functions to the management and council of a university whose structures are primarily responsible to manage and govern the legal entity. “As the minister, I have specific functions and responsibilities assigned to me in terms of this act, however, no provision in the act empowers me to become involved in the functions related to management or governance of aninstitution,” Pandor said. She further said she had the power to intervene in the institution in terms of Chapter 6 of the act if she is convinced that the council of the university has failed to effectively manage and govern the institution. “As I indicated earlier, I will always give the council an opportunity to deal with the issue or advise me on the issue before I exercise the powers given to me by law,” Pandor said. lillians@thenewage.co.za -LILLIAN SELAPISA