ADVOCACY group, Sisters Working in Film and Television Industry (Swift) has called on victims of sexual harassment and rape to report abuse in the acting industry. On Tuesday night, the social media were left shaken after a string of women confided in blogger and television presenter Phil Mphela about two prominent men in the South African film and television industry, claiming they sexually abused them. One of these is an SABC employee and prominent filmmaker who’s been identified on social media. Mphela said five women have since come out and graphically told him of their experiences at the hands of the two men. “I get a lot of direct messages on Twitter from people who wish to expose the injustices in the entertainment industry after having voiced my concern about the ill-treatment of our local stars. “I guess the four women who opened up to me felt like I would give them a platform to express themselves. “The fifth lady, Thando, shared her encounter with the director last year on social media, so it makes a total of five women who claimed to have been sexually harassed by this man and I know of celebrities who have been in the same situation but are too afraid to say.” The filmmaker (whose name is known to The New Age) was not available for comment at the time of going to print. SABC spokesperson Kaizer Kganyago said he was not aware of the allegations that the broadcaster’s employees were secretly luring women to private hotels for auditions. However, he urged victims to lodge formal complaints with the public broadcaster. Swift spokesperson Sarah Blecher said she could not comment on this specific case as it was still an allegation. “However, as Swift we take sexual abuse in the industry very seriously and we urge victims to come to us and we will offer them counselling and any other support they need,” Blecher said. Vice-chairperson of the South African Guild of Actors, Adrian Galley, said any form of sexual abuse should not be tolerated. Yesterday, TV presenter Thembisa Mdoda reacted to the news with shock on Twitter, saying: “This industry is hard enough without having to deal with sexual predators. “Those who claim to love it, use it to violate young artists. It is not only criminal but so evil to destroy the fresh, creative mind that can only be beneficial to the arts. Shame on you.” Acclaimed actress Kgomotso Christopher said: “Until actors, crew, industry workers have legally binding, enforceable laws, encompassed in an Act of Parliament, artists will continue to be exploited, cheated of residual fees & right to say NO to their lives being put in danger.” siyabongas@thenewage.co.za
nontokozog@thenewage.co.za