SACP Secretary-General Blade Nzimande on Tuesday congratulated party members for keeping Chris Hani’s memory alive and ensuring that he is never forgotten. Nzimande, who was the keynote speaker at the party’s commemoration of the 25th anniversary of Hani’s passing, thanked Ekurhuleni Executive Mayor Mzwandile Masina for continuing to celebrate Hani’s memory every year. Hani was the leader of the SACP and chief of staff of uMkhonto we Sizwe (MK), the armed wing of the ANC. He was assassinated on 10 April 1993 outside his home in Dawn Park, Boksburg. Apartheid-era Conservative Party member Clive-Derby-Lewis and Polish immigrant Janusz Waluś were sentenced to life imprisonment for his death. Derby-Lewis died in 2016, after his release on parole. Waluś is currently serving a life sentence. Nzimande also announced that the communist party had bought the house where Hani died in Dawn Park. “We have always said, for the longest time as the SACP that we wanted that house. We want that house to be a national heritage site and a monument. I hope Minister of Arts and Culture Nathi Mthethwa is listening,” Nzimande said. He also called for Hani’s convicted killer Janusz Waluś to continue to be imprisoned until he told everyone who instructed him to kill Hani. “All we are asking for is the truth. Nothing less. We still want the truth and the whole truth.” Nzimande also urged MK veterans to unite in memory of Hani. “What we want is unity among the veterans of our movement. That is all we want. This thing of 20 year olds calling themselves veterans of MK has to stop.” As several parties have already started with their campaigns for the 2019 general elections, Nzimande called on party members to make sure that the movement, as led by the ANC, did not lose power as that would be the biggest tragedy. Meanwhile, the SACP leader also expressed unhappiness with the police for not arresting a person who wanted to shoot the party’s second deputy secretary-general during last year’s commemoration. -TNA Reporter