ESKOM has emphatically denied that load shedding is looming because of a coal supply crisis. The utility said coal stockpiles were low at seven power stations but plans were in place to replenish them. In an interview with The New Age yesterday, Eskom spokesperson Khulu Phasiwe said load shedding was not part of Eskom’s plan “and we are working to make sure that it does not happen”. His response comes in the wake of speculation that Eskom is in a coal supply crisis at numerous power stations. Some reports said the situation had become so serious that Eskom’s primary energy division had recommended that a “coal supply emergency” be declared. Eskom told The New Age that stockpiles at seven power stations – Arnot, Camden, Hendrina, Majuba, Tutuka, Kriel and Komati – are low and additional coal contracts for all these stations are being concluded and will add to the current supply. “The national Treasury has approved processes to issue contracts to replenish coal. All state-owned entities have to follow these principles to get approval and we now have it.” Phasiwe said people were worried about load shedding as we head into winter. “The risk of load shedding is always there, but how you mitigate it is what is important.” Energy expert Chris Yelland said no answer has been given about how many days of usable coal is presently in Eskom’s stockyard. “There are reports that the coal presently in the Matla stockyard is unusable,” Yelland said. But Phasiwe emphatically denied this, saying Yelland was trying to create the impression that Eskom was incapable of procuring enough coal, “which is untrue”. Yelland said Eskom had denied that its head of generation had received a recommendation that a “coal supply emergency” should be declared. But Eskom responded that even if such a recommendation existed, it would not be able to confirm it. “It would be highly irregular and irresponsible of us if the board, the minister and regulator learnt about this company through media reports. Eskom will release all its operational and financial information once all the correct protocols have been followed”, Phasiwe said. Ronald Chauke, energy portfolio manager at pressure group Outa, said that the organisation was concerned about current reports of serious coal supply problems at Eskom, while the utility was applying for R66.6bn in its RCA claw-back from the public due largely to previous mismanagement of the entity, including coal contracts. “South Africa cannot afford the incessant increases required by Eskom over the past decade, all due to poor leadership and mismanagement of its operations and capital expenditure programmes,” Chauke said. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za