ENERGY Minister Jeff Radebe and Eskom are set to sign the 27 renewable energy contracts with Independent Power Producers (IPPs), in the wake of a court blow for those opposing the energy deal. However, the great energy debate over coal vs nuclear vs renewables continues to rage. Judge Dawie Fourie last Thursday found that the “urgent” application filed by pro-coal trade union Numsa and Transform RSA was not urgent and threw the matter out. Independent power producers and Eskom are not yet out of the woods as a previous court action brought by the Coal Transporter’s Forum remains on the court roll. Judge Fourie said this matter would have to be concluded before the Numsa application could be considered. Meanwhile, the Department of Energy said it would continue to champion the right of consumers to costefficient and clean energy. “We will also continue to champion the NDP (national development plan) objectives through programmes that bring investment to create jobs and entrepreneurial opportunities in rural communities,” the department said. It insisted that the government remains commitment to a solid publicprivate partnerships “as we pursue our energy transition objectives”. Renewable energy is collected from resources that are naturally replenished such as sunlight, wind, rain, tides, waves and geothermal heat. The SA Wind Energy Association (Sawea) said renewable power purchase costs would not place additional financial burden on Eskom but had in fact added to Eskom’s revenue. It said the present electricity surplus may well be short-lived and that renewables were SA’s lowest-cost and most flexible power investment option. The 27 projects should start supplying electricity into the grid about three years after the PPAs are signed, once power plants have been constructed and then connected to the transmission system. According to the Renewable IPP Procurement programme, SA has high renewable energy potential and in line with the national commitment to move to a low-carbon economy, 17 800 MW of the 2030 target of the newly generated power to be developed are expected to be from renewable energy sources, with 5000MW to be operational by next year and a further 2000MW operational by 2020. But the move to renewables has been criticised as “absent of adequate forethought” by Tim Blom, an energy expert and partner at Mining & Energy Advisory. “The energy race is a 20 year, energy-intensive marathon with many influencing factors to be carefully planned, routed and considered,” Blom said. He said SA is well endowed with more than 400 billion tons of coal. “The previous government used this cheap energy to ignite and develop an industrialised sector. Cheap energy provided the incentive to develop SA’s mining sector into a world leader which has created hundreds of thousands of jobs,” he said. This is old-fashioned thinking, Greenpeace said. Political adviser at the organisation, Happy Khambule, said coal is a dying industry globally because it is driving catastrophic climate change, creates significant air pollution and illnesses and is increasingly being mechanised, which means fewer jobs. Meanwhile, despite the barriers, Khambule insisted the renewable energy industry had been creating new job opportunities and had the potential to create many thousands more. “It is one of the fastest growing and most innovative sectors across the world. Claims made by Numsa that renewable energy will push up the price of electricity are false. Studies have shown that renewable energy is the least costly electricity choice,” he said. He criticised Numsa for defending an industry which “exploits people and natural resources in pursuit of company profits”. Dr Kelvin Kemm, chairperson of the Nuclear Energy Council told The New Age that nuclear energy could not be ignored. Kemm warned that SA was using far less electricity than it should be using. “According to the projections of a dozen years ago the country should now be using 50% more electricity than it is. The paying customer base was eroded by the serious energy shortage in 2007-08.” Therefore, he said, Eskom’s income dropped drastically and “very expensive renewable energy was acquired in a rush, to plug the shortfall”. Now Eskom has to pay for that decision, he says, while the Koeberg nuclear power station remains Eskom’s cheapest electricity with many years of life left. Kemm believes that SA needs to start building new nuclear power stations urgently or, “in another seven or eight years, we will again find ourselves with our backs to the wall”. The Chamber of Mines, not surprisingly, defends coal, insisting that coal were the cheapest baseload technology available. This is supported by the Department of Energy’s Integrated Resource Plan which shows that the “levelised cost of electricity” across the various coal technologies, is lower than renewables. If battery technology for renewables is taken into account, the cost of electricity increases significantly. The chamber said that when it comes to coal emissions, new technologies have emissions and other pollutants drastically. In its 2018 coal strategy report, the Chamber of Mines said that, indirectly, the coal industry is responsible for creating and sustaining more than 170000 jobs outside the industry. Energy expert Chris Yelland told The New Age that the move to renewable energy was a global move. “Job losses are inevitable but more jobs will be created through renewables than will be lost.” Brenda Martin from Sawea told The New Age that SA’s over-reliance on coal created significant risks that could no longer be underplayed. “The imminent closures of Eskom’s old coal fired power stations are inevitable and unrelated to the renewable energy procurement programme. The coal plants have reached the end of their useful lives and are now directly stranded by the new coal-fired capacity being brought online by Medupi and Kusile,” the organisation said. The Department of Energy said it would be making announcements on the way forward “in due course”. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za