Mpumalanga police are asking for information that will help them arrest a gang of people who robbed two cash vehicles in the province last week alone. In the first cash heist, a gang of armed men failed in their mission to rob a cash handling vehicle of money in Sabie and White River. According to the police, Group 4 Security Services (G4S) officers were surprised after collecting money in Sabie, when they were ambushed with gunshots. Hawks spokesperson in Mpumalanga, Captain Dineo Lucy Sekgotodi, said when the guards stopped their vehicle, they saw a white Toyota single cab bakkie with about 10 armed men moving towards the vehicle, shouting at them to get out of the vehicle and to lay on the ground. “They were then searched and disarmed of a 9mm Norinco Pistol and one cellphone. “The victims further said that while laying on the ground, the suspects threw explosives inside the armoured vehicle but did not succeed in their mission. The suspects then left the scene,” Sekgotodi said. “The other incidents took place on Friday 13 April at Kamhlushwa Trust in the Tonga area and the Zwelisha at Pienaar Trust on Tuesday.” She said according to their information on the case, the cash vehicle was heading towards Kamhlushwa from Schoemansdal when security personnel noticed a silver BMW sedan and a gold Volkswagen Amarok bakkie following them at high speed. “The occupants of the BMW drove parallel to the vehicle and forced the driver to halt at gunpoint. In the process, the security guards also noticed that there were other vehicles, including a black BMW, which were blocking the road with a group of men armed with rifles.” “As a result, the G4S vehicle came to a standstill and the guards were forced out and also disarmed. The suspects then blasted the vehicle before fleeing the scene with an undisclosed amount of cash.” On the heist in Zwelisha, Sekgotodi said the police were still looking for suspects after one of two Fidelity Security vehicles, which were on their way to deliver social grant money in Zwelisha and Luphisa, were also robbed. Sekgotodi said anyone with information on any of the three incidents can contact Brigadier Obed Ngwenya on 082 565 6417 or Lieutenant-Colonel Christopher Sitjodana on 071 481 2802 or can alternatively call Crime Stop on 08600 10 111. -TNA Reporter