THE battle for control of SA’s biggest construction company has intensified, with German investor Aton raising its stake in Murray & Roberts (M&R) to 33.1% as it seeks to take over the engineering and construction firm despite management opposition. The M&R directors are fighting back, warning that the Aton bid, if successful, could result in job losses and a dilution of its broad-based black economic empowerment ownership. Aton said after the JSE closed for the long weekend on Thursday that it had agreed to buy 13 671 480 ordinary shares in M&R for R15 a share. It did not say from whom it had made the purchase. The shares closed at R13.80 on Thursday, up 2.2%. It said it had also agreed to buy a further 29 005 926 shares from investment management company Allan Gray, M&R’s third-largest stakeholder, for R15, which would further raise its stake to 39.6%. Allan Gray had made an irrevocable agreement to sell its stake to Aton. M&R in a Sens announcement has rejected Aton’s offer as “opportunistic and made at a time of unprecedented share price weakness as a consequence of low liquidity, declining valuations of its legacy peers in the construction sector and halting of the company’s share buy-back programme in 2017”. It said the R15 a share offer materially undervalued M&R based on its prospects and called the rationale presented by Aton as weak a number of material respects. M&R’s board pointed out to shareholders that it was not clear how Aton proposed to manage the dilution of Murray & Roberts’ B-BBEE ownership credentials and the “potential resultant impact on material contracts and employment”. The directors said the company was in the process of pursuing both organic and acquisitive opportunities, which it said would have the potential to add significant value. It hinted that its broad-based black economic empowerment (B-BBEE) initiatives in SA and its Level 4 B-BBEE contributor status could be compromised by a hostile takeover. It said its B-BBEE shareholders amounted to 54.7% and that black women own 18.9% of the company. “The independent board notes with concern the significant risk of dilution to the company’s B-BBEE ownership profile on a flow-through basis, with potentially severe implications for the company’s current mining contracts and its ability to secure future mining contracts in SA,” the M&R board told shareholders. M&R said it was a significant employer in SA, with approximately 10 700 employees. “The impact of the offer on material contracts of the company and therefore the company’s employees, is a significant concern for the independent board, it said, adding that the board would not be willing to cooperate with Aton to implement the current offer. Aton said it would be for M&R shareholders to decide on the offer. Financial services conglomerate Old Mutual, which holds about 5% of M&R, rejected an offer from Aton to buy its stake at R15 a share, saying that the offer was below fair value. Aton, with a diverse portfolio of investments in the mining, engineering, aviation and health technology sectors, is making its second attempt at a deal after a previous approach failed in 2016. -TNA REPORTER |with Reuters business@thenewage.co.za