The ANC has on Monday revealed that former Western Cape Premier, Ebrahim Rasool will head the party’s election campaign as it attempts to wrestle control of the province from the DA during next years general election. The announcement was made during a press conference addressed by the ANC’s head of elections, Fikile Mbalula in Cape Town during which he unveiled the party’s election plan. “Comrade Rasool needs no introduction in this province having served as its most successful premier. Under him, the poor came first, tangible improvements in people’s lives were evident, the government was not just focussed on smokes and mirrors but real changes,” said Mbalula. Rasool previously served as Premier of the Western Cape after he was appointed by then-President Thabo Mbeki in 2004. He later resigned from his position in 2008 and was replaced by former Minister Lynne Brown and as the Ambassador to the United States between 2010 and 2015. According to Mbalula in his new position, Rasool will work with a team accountable to the leadership collective of the ANC in the Western Cape and ultimately the National ANC leadership. Commenting on his thrust back into the ANC fold in a prominent position, Rasool said that “when the ANC calls, you cant say no”. “I am not doing this reluctantly. I believe that if ever the moment was there for the ANC to be ready for this province, this is it.” “This is an ANC we are proud of and is an ANC we want to win,” he said. He added that the opposition was gradually failing in defining itself outside of ANC which the masses are not always complaining about. “The moment of the ANC’s renewal, has coincided with the implosion of the DA,” said Rassol. The former premier said for him there was also a sense of unfinished business where non-racialism and providing quality service delivery was the main priority. “We need to complete the projects we started in house building for our people across the length and breadth of this province, we need to continue where we left off in the health interventions…to every community,” he said. Meanwhile, Mbalula said that in its campaign the ANC would be dialling into issues which will ensure the transformation of the provincial economy which will see Coloureds and Africans in particular move from the economic periphery. -TNA Reporter  