EQUALLY fearless, heroic and resilient, Solomon Mahlangu, Chris Hani and Winnie Madikizela Mandela all took their last breaths over a span of decades in the month of April, a month that will forever be engraved in our history as a time of loss and remembrance. It is also fortuitous that the celebration of the lives of these fearless patriots occurs in the month that the country celebrates its 24th anniversary of the advent of democracy in 1994. Mahlangu, Hani and Madikizela Mandela have many characteristics in common. All them were uncompromising revolutionaries, they experienced the worst of the apartheid regime’s brutality and remained undaunted in their quest to create a better life for all South Africans right up to their deaths. South Africa is to host a series of events to celebrate the lives of the three freedom fighters and to commemorate their contributions to the struggle. In an exclusive interview with The New Age, Solomon Mahlangu’s brother, Chief Lukas Mahlangu, described the events that led to his brother paying the ultimate price for fighting for freedom. Lukas says he has never forgotten the horrific period between 1976 when Mahlangu skipped the country, leaving a brief note under his pillow – and 1979 – when his brother was hanged. “We used to sleep together in the same tin shack and by then I was working for the correctional services. “Solomon used to leave for weekends and come back so we hardly worried about him. Until one day when I found a letter under my pillow. He said that we should not look for him because he had left. I showed it to our mother and soon the branch (security) came and collected his clothes,” Lukas said. The family would not see or hear from the teenager for two years. Then they heard on the news that a “terrorist” had been arrested for killing two people in a shoot-out in Johannesburg. “That was when police started harassing us with random raids,” he said. After a four-month trial, Mahlangu was convicted of murder and sentenced to death. During that time, only Mahlangu’s mother was given visitation rights. Lukas said he only saw his brother the day before the execution. “It was sad that the only time we saw him was when the date for his execution had already been set. We knew he was going to get killed. On that day the pastor prayed and we left. They were six (prisoners) but he was the only political prisoner who was killed on that day.” His family was called to see the coffin after he had been executed. Lukas said that instead of his brother being buried in the Mamelodi cemetery, he was taken to the Atteridgeville cemetery because of international protests against the execution. The police feared that burying him in Mamelodi would provoke a reaction from the local community and they buried him secretly in Atteridgeville. The family found out about his secret burial in Atteridgeville after members of the ANC’s underground structures tipped them off. “The late Ronny Mamoepa and a senior member of the ANC, Ngoako Ramatlhodi, came running to our home to tell us they saw police at the Atteridgeville cemetery and they suspected that it was Solomon’s body,” he said. The two men then took the family to the cemetery on the same day and that was how they got to know where he was buried. On April 6, 1993, 14 years after his execution, Solomon Mahlangu’s body was reburied at the Mamelodi cemetery where a plaque states his last words: “My blood will nourish the tree that will bear the fruits of freedom. Tell my people that I love them. They must continue the fight.” Lukas said that despite several statues, a road named after him and an entry in the history books, the Mahlangu family was concerned about how their brother’s legacy had been managed. “Today’s leaders are there for personal gain and are not reflecting the spirit of Kalushi, as he was also known. They are not patriotic like he was.” While he has been honoured in the country and internationally, his family says a memorial site in Mamelodi which was officially opened by Hani in 1993, has since become a white elephant. The memorial was refurbished at a cost of R49m and officially opened in 2015. A statue of Mahlangu was unveiled in the presence of MadikizelaMandela. The family says people have no access as it is always locked. The Solomon Mahlangu Memorial Square was meant to inspire, educate and offer economic opportunities to the local community. “It does not work. We thought it was going to work and ever since the new mayor (the DA’s Solly Msimanga) took over, things have turned for the worse,” Lukas said. “The community does not use it. I have never seen anyone go there. The stalls have been destroyed and the lights surrounding the statues were stolen.” The family still lives in Mamelodi but his mother Martha, who testified at the Truth and Reconciliation Commission, died four years ago. Today, Deputy President David Mabuza begins a series of events to commemorate the 39th anniversary of Mahlangu’s execution. KUTULLO MADISHA AND BONGIWE MCHUNU