The family of a 20-year-old student who went missing three weeks ago had approached the courts in an effort to get permission to question and search places of individuals they believe are hiding information about what happened to their daughter. According to information circulated on Twitter by her friends, Karabo Ncube was last seen in Braamfontein, Johannesburg going to the Bree Street taxi rank on March 24. However, a family member told The New Age yesterday, following the story taking a different turn on social media, that none of the people who were with her on the day she disappeared informed them that she was missing. “People knew about her going missing before it reached the family. We found out about it on social media. That was when her aunt went and opened a case with the police. “There have been people calling her parents saying they have her phone so the family went to an iStore but the phone could not be traced. We think it is people who are trying to fish for information on how far the investigation is,” he said. At the weekend, a video showing Ncube and a friend surfaced on social media, leading to a scathing attack on the woman who posted it and people calling on her friends to give out information. It also emerged that her Twitter account was still active and it had been blocking and “unfollowing” those who were raising questions about the people who were the last to see her. The video was later deleted and her Twitter account locked to new followers. According to one friend she was last seen at 11.40am leaving the flat where she was visiting in Braamfontein wearing dark blue jeans and a black top. “There is no way nobody knows what happened to Karabo,” a social media update from one user read yesterday. “All the family can do is wait and hope for the best,” the family member said. “They do not sleep. They do not have a lead and they are trying everything to get one,” he said. Some have likened the story to that of Palesa Madiba who disappeared while visiting a friend’s house in Soweto, only for her remains to be found two days later buried in the backyard of the same house. kutullom@thenewage.co.za