NOT many teams can claim to be as embattled as Ajax Cape Town. Just as they are preparing to battle AmaZulu at the King Goodwill Zwelithini Stadium in an important PSL match this evening at 7.30pm, another Ajax fight will be in court chambers. Urban Warriors striker Tendai Ndoro filed an urgent interdict against the PSL’s dispute resolution chamber barring him from playing in Ajax’s coming relegation battle matches. This is because the PSL and Safa are waiting for Fifa to rule on Ndoro’s eligibility after he played for Orlando Pirates, Saudi Arabian side Al-Faisaly and Ajax. The player, who still wants to feature in tonight’s match against AmaZulu, is likely to be in the Johannesburg high court this morning to hear if the judges set aside his suspension, which will make him eligible to play relegation candidates AmaZulu. Ndoro stated in his application to the court the reason he had to leave the Saudi side. Losing the case this morning may be a big indication in terms of how Fifa may eventually rule on the matter, putting Ajax in a difficult position. Should they lose the case, they will be docked the points won in matches Ndoro played in. That will then mean Ajax, who are second from bottom, will have only two points over bottom-placed Platinum Stars. The Urban Warriors have won just six matches in 24 attempts this season, with the other results being six draws and 12 defeats. “The inability to play this match cannot be undone after the fact. I am an integral part of the Ajax squad and preventing me from playing could cause irrevocable consequences for Ajax. Ajax face relegation and needs every point it can get in its remaining games. My right to work is under threat,” Ndoro said. “This application essentially concerns the dispute about my status, which has been lawfully, equitably and constitutionally resolved by the dispute resolution chamber. What is in question is my ability to play for Ajax. This question arises from a series of unfortunate circumstances in Saudi Arabia. “But the key issue is whether I should continue suffering irreparable harm arising from an unlawful and unconstitutional decision to suspend me from playing football.” -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za