VETERAN black lobbyist, retired professor Themba Sono, has joined the chorus calling on Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe to appeal the high court ruling on “once empowered, always empowered” in the mining sector. Sono said the decision was damaging to economic transformation. The Chamber of Mines welcomed the ruling of the high court last week. The body had for almost a year been in acrimonious exchanges with the Department of Mineral Resouces under former minister Mosebenzi Zwane over the new mining charter. The court ruled that the South African mining companies should not be required to “top up” black ownership levels if they previously met the minimum requirements. This was dubbed “once empowered, always empowered”. However, Sono said he found no logic in the court’s ruling. “We can’t have permanent empowerment for certain individuals.” Sono, who wrote a hard-hitting book almost 13 years ago, which focused on steps toward real transformation, said that the once empowered element would limit the scorecard of empowerment. “Real empowerment will be empowerment that takes a wide range of South African people into the economic mainstream – not particular cronies repeating themselves time and again. “It doesn’t make sense. “For example, if Mr Sono is empowered by Anglo American and at some point exits his shareholding, no one else can take up those shares, except Mr Sono. He has a second chance to be empowered again. This is absolutely an insult to the masses,” Sono said. He said the court decision was wrong if those who exited their shares still had a second chance to be empowered again by overlooking others. “This is an indictment of the lower economic segment of society. It is clear that the entire empowerment process is for the elites, not ordinary citizens. This is for big guns only. “For two decades, it seems empowerment was never intended for ordinary people. If the decision is not challenged, South Africans will remain poor and other sectors will take the advantage of the mining charter,” Sono said. He said the country did not want transformation that limited the success of black people. Meanwhile, Mantashe told delegates attending a platinum mining conference in Johannesburg yesterday that he aimed for a new mining charter by next month. “We are still aiming to finalise a third version of an industry charter by May that lays out requirements for black ownership levels and other targets. “I am still confident that we will finalise the charter by May. I am very confident,” Mantashe said. The charter revisions proposed by Mantashe’s predecessor were opposed by the industry, which for years had been grappling with depressed prices, outbursts of labour and social unrest and policy uncertainty. The charter’s problem areas included raising the target for black ownership to 30% from 26%. But Mantashe promised that when the charter is finalised the industry would be legally required to follow its targets and regulations. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za