AS MUCH as SuperSport United want to advance to the group stages of the CAF Confederation Cup, midfielder Thuso Phala has questioned if it is really worth it considering the team’s position on the PSL log. SuperSport find themselves on unfamiliar ground, grounded at 14th on the log just a point ahead of second from bottom Ajax Cape Town after 27 matches. Tonight, they shift their focus to the Confederation Cup play-off against Gor Mahia at Lucas Moripe Stadium looking to overturn the 1-0 defeat they suffered in the first leg in Kenya. Phala admitted that their run, which saw them reach the final last year only to lose to TP Mazembe, is the reason they find themselves in this situation. “It’s kind of a sad and happy situation because we really want to do well in CAF but then, does it help us with the situation in the league?” Phala said. “The last time we went to Kenya we went with 15 players and came back to play Orlando Pirates. “So it is a really difficult situation but the professional players that we have here, we know that we have to fight for all the games that we play. “It is three games left in the league and it is just the last effort to survive relegation I should say.” Despite fighting to stay in the league, Phala believes they haven’t had as bad a season as many say after they reached the Confederation Cup final and won the MTN8 trophy. “It is a new situation for some of the players and definitely for the club. It is very difficult, some will say we had a bad season but looking back we won the cup. “This season, we went to the CAF final and we have the possibility of finishing in the top eight so is not such a bad season if you look back but finding the team at the bottom it looks like a bad season. “It has been very difficult for us with no breaks and the little players we have for CAF makes it difficult.” Phala is also disappointed with his performance this season as he believes he hasn’t done enough to help the team. “Me personally it is very difficult finding myself having not scored in the league this season. It has been a disappointing season for me individually. “When you have players scoring for you every season and you don’t get a goal it also affect the club’s position in the league. “It’s one of those seasons you have and moving forward it also becomes a goal that you have to improve next season.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za