THE city of Ekurhuleni is pulling out all the stops with a month-long programme of activities to celebrate the life of struggle stalwart Chris Hani. Today marks exactly 24 years since Hani, the South African Communist Party secretary-general, was assassinated outside his Boksburg home. The city will host a wreath-laying ceremony today with government and political leaders, the community and the Hani family, at the Thomas Nkobi Memorial Park in Boksburg, where Hani’s grave, his memorial and walk of remembrance sites are. This will be followed by a memorial lecture on the struggle stalwart’s life and times at the Boksburg Civic Centre the same day. The Chris Hani Photographic Exhibition, depicting his life, will be opened for public viewing, for free, at the Springs Art Gallery from April 21 to May 21, from 9 am to 4.30pm during weekdays, while it will be open from 8 am to 12 pm during weekends. In addition, 100 primary and secondary school pupils from Ekurhuleni and the Chris Hani district municipality in the Eastern Cape province will, on April 14, present and debate issues that led to the Codesa negotiations. The pupils will thereafter hand their declarations to the mayor of Ekurhuleni, Mzwandile Masina, on Monday, April 16, at Alberton Civic Centre. The city conferred the Freedom of the City to Chris Hani, posthumously, in November 2006 and declared April, the month in which he died, Chris Hani Month. In March 2017, Chris Hani’s grave, the memorial and the walk of remembrance were declared national heritage sites by the South African National Heritage Agency. This year, the City of Ekurhuleni’s Heritage Services submitted nominations to Provincial Heritage Resources Authority Gauteng, for the Chris Hani house situated at 02 Hakea Street, Dawn Park, Boksburg, to be declared a national heritage site. Ekurhuleni’s member of the mayoral committee for community services, Dora Mlambo, said: “The declaration of the house as a national heritage site will enhance the preservation, protection and promotion of Chris Hani’s legacy, history and his contribution to the liberation struggle.” In 2016, Clive Derby-Lewis, who spent 22 years in jail for his role in the assassination of Hani, said Hani was killed to make the country ungovernable so that the conservatives could take over. He was speaking in an inclusive interview with Forum Films. He revealed this just two months before his death on November 3, 2016. Derby-Lewis was released on medical parole in June 2015. Hani’s killer, Polish immigrant Janusz Walus is still behind bars and has been trying to be released on parole without success. Justice Minister Michael Masutha last year refused Walus’s application for parole saying paroling him would be pointless as he still harboured resentment. Derby-Lewis and Walus were sentenced to death for Hani’s murder in October 1993. Their death sentences were commuted to life imprisonment in November 2000. – Lillian Selapisa