ENGINEERING and metals industry body Seifsa has sounded the alarm over the consequences on the sector should the national energy regulator Nersa grant Eskom its wish for R66bn in the hike of electricity tariffs. Eskom continues to defend its rights to the R66bn from Nersa, insisting that the regulatory clearing account (RCA) was a backward looking process claiming against actual audited costs and not a new application for revenue based on estimations. Chief economist at the Steel and Engineering Industries Federation of Southern Africa (Seifsa), Dr Michael Ade warned the increase in the price of electricity will deal SA’s metals and engineering (M&E) sector – which is just beginning to come out of the doldrums – a serious blow and potentially lead to job losses. Seifsa agreed that Eskom was entitled to the R66.6bn but stand opposed to the potential high tariff hike that will follow as a result. The organisation sent a submission to oppose the hike to the energy regulator. Ade said that constrained electricity supply and increasing electricity costs will have a negative knock-on effect on the country’s ability to export, reduce competitiveness and foreign earnings and also adversely affect GDP growth over time. He said this was especially so given that the electricity-intensive subindustries in the M&E sector are also the most robust exporters and earners of foreign exchange. “The federation believes that the contributory impact of increasing electricity costs on the sector would include a slowdown in production and growth, an increase in product prices, a decline in exports and poor export competitiveness, under-utilisation of production capacity, low import substitution industrialisation due to reduced domestic production, substitution of locally manufactured inputs with cheap imported components, and disruption in fixed investment. “The proposed hike in tariffs will hurt production volumes. Most energy-intensive users are still consuming below their 2008 levels where production was relatively higher. The latest production index in the M&E cluster at the end of 2017 is below its 18-year average of 101.8 index points and the performance at the end of 2017 was roughly 20% below the peak before the crises gained momentum,” Ade said. He said Seifsa understands the situation faced by Eskom, particularly the need to ensure the utility’s financial sustainability. However, he insisted that this was linked to the financial sustainability of Eskom’s customers, which needed an affordable tariff to maintain sustainability and, thus, remain Eskom’s customers. He said there was no doubt that the proposed increase in tariff would hurt individual companies in the M&E cluster and the economy in general. “It is essential that any tariff increase should be based on reasonableness, with directives for Eskom to improve on efficiencies. Otherwise, there will be more job losses,” Ade said. However, Ted Blom, partner at Mining & Energy Advisory, has urged Nersa to cancel Eskom’s tariff hike application. “By implication, the corruption covered in the public protector’s state of capture report falls inside the window period of the three RCA applications delivered to Nersa by Eskom. “The report was released in November 2016, detailing severe instances of corruption and malfeasance at several state organs, including Eskom,” Blom said. However, “nowhere in Eskom’s applications is there any reference to corrupt activities and the quantification thereof”. “In fact, Eskom would have the public believe that it runs a clean operation, despite findings to the contrary in Thuli Madonsela’s report. Until a full and proper forensic audit is conducted, we, the public, will never have an idea of how much of Eskom’s claim is tainted by corruption,” Blom said. Eskom interim group chief executive Phakamani Hadebe said the utility is dealing “decisively” with executives and employees accused of fraud and corruption. “We are supportive of the various investigations under way and will participate to contribute towards their objectives being met. “These investigations include Parliament’s portfolio committee’s probe, the judicial inquiry by deputy chief justice Zondo and the Special Investigation Unit recently announced by the President.” -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za