“I AM hurting, my child, I am really hurting,” said Fisani Shoba, whose son Phiwayinkosi, 10, was among three children who died after a wall of a dilapidated building in Doornfontein, Johannesburg, collapsed while they were playing on Monday. The distraught mother cried continuously as she sat on a blanket with her son’s neatly folded school uniform and clothes next to her yesterday. She said Phiwayinkosithe was the second child she would be burying. She lost her first child in 2014 after he was shot on his way home. “I was mopping the floor, when I suddenly heard a bang as the wall collapsed. I thought a car had driven into the wall. I heard my child screaming his sibling’s name. I was confused and scared because my child was nowhere to be seen. Children started running around and crying non-stop,” another occupant of the building, Sindy Mabona, who recalled the horror incident, said. She recalled how one of the children who died kept raising his hand for help after being covered with bricks from the wall. The Socio-economic Rights Institute (Seri) said the city authorities had failed the occupants of the building. “The families living in an abandoned building at 39 to 41 Davies Street, which partially collapsed, killing three children, had been asking the city of Johannesburg for emergency accommodation for eight months. But none was provided,” Seri said. Seri said it had been pressing the city to provide the residents with emergency accommodation, which would have allowed them to move out of the dangerous building to safer accommodation elsewhere. “The city must do better. It is not acceptable that there is literally no accommodation available for people, such as the residents, who are living in profoundly unsafe conditions. But Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba, who has expressed his condolences to the families of the victims, has blamed the hijacking of buildings for the tragedy. “It is essential that we bring back the rule of law to our city and take it back from criminal elements such as landlords who take advantage of desperate people and house them under deplorable conditions,” Mashaba said. “We are committed to ensuring that we stop the rot in our inner city and make it a prosperous and inclusive place for our people to live, work and play. I would like to thank all the role players involved in yesterday’s successful operation,” he said. Meanwhile cooperative governance and traditional affairs and human settlements MEC Dikgang Uhuru Moiloa has renewed calls to owners of private buildings to work with authorities to prevent the illegal occupation of buildings following the death of the three children after the collapsed wall of the building, illegally occupied by about 100 families at the time. “It is not only sad and tragic that yet another set of children had to die under such horrific circumstances, as a clear reminder of the social ills of illegal occupation,” Moiloa said. -KEITUMETSI MOTLHALE|news@thenewage.co.za