The National Union of Metalworkers of South Africa (NUMSA) has called on South African sporting bodies to defend Olympic champion Caster Semenya by lodging an appeal on the decision by International Association of Athletes Federation (IAAF) to introduce new eligibility regulations for female Classification. “Numsa calls on South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee SASCOC to appeal this decision. They have a duty to defend her from this vicious attack. “Furthermore, we call on all our members and the working class, in general, to support Caster in her time of need. We cannot be silent in the face of this uncivilised attack on her. We must defend her,” Numsa said in a statement. This comes after the announcement by IAAF last week that it had introduced new eligibility regulations for Female Classification that is due to start in November. According to the new regulation, any athlete with a higher level of testosterone will now be forced to take pills to lower her testosterone levels in order to continue competing. “IAAF is clearly racist and has manipulated the research in order to suit the conditions it wants in order to justify rampant discrimination against talented darker skinned athletes. We are very familiar with these tactics which have frequently been used by our oppressors, especially in the dark days of Apartheid,” Numsa said. The union said that it stands in solidarity with Semenya on the ‘attack’ from the international sporting organization. IAAF is accused of targeting Semenya as the new regulations only cover female mid to long distance runners which she competes in. “It is precisely because of her brilliance that reactionary forces in the IAAF are determined to end her reign in the sports arena. The IAAF is saying that Caster’s brilliance is based on the fact that she has increased levels of testosterone. “There is no scientific proof that naturally, occurring testosterone enhances physical strength, let alone talent at any sport! Caster derives no sporting advantage from her testosterone levels,” Numsa said. -Afro Worldview