North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo says the recent violent protest is not about the people of Mahikeng mainly. Mahumapelo says people who are sponsoring these protest are anti-Supra coalition campaign who are seeking to derail the radical approach of changing the economic landscape of the province doesn’t materialise. “I am not saying there are no challenges in Mahikeng, there are people who are making sure that all this radical approach to changing the economic landscape of the province doesn’t happen. “Also since I announce the aggressive programme to deal with corruption since 1994 until now, people have just decided to stand up and fight that programme.” He further said that he was not under any investigation relating to corruption rather in court for such allegations. Mahumapelo revealed that there were threats over his life, adding that one person was found guilty relating to those threats in February this year. He also mentioned that he is aware that the protest is set to intensify in the next coming day. The premier, however, said he will not give in to those people’s demands who wanted government benefits for only themselves. Meanwhile, the ANC in the province says they are happy with the ongoing engagements between NEHAWU and the task team of MECs established by the Premier to find a solution to the health workers’ strike. “We urge them to meet day and night to reach an agreement in line with the striking workers’ demands. We, therefore, request our public servants to go back to work in order to help our society with the health services they are entitled to as prescribed in our country’s Constitution.” “We condemn the violence, torching, and damage to property by protesters and want to make it clear that this is wrong and unacceptable. These acts of violence have led to learners not being able to go to schools, patients being unable to access health facilities, while public servants in clinics around Mahikeng and Mahikeng Provincial Hospital are being harassed by some of the protesters.” -TNA Reporter 