Plastic bottles were hurled at Kaizer Chiefs coach Steve Komphela Saturday after the one-time giants of South African football crashed 3-0 at home to Chippa United in the Premiership. The result heightened public and media beliefs that the three-year contract of the unsuccessful coach will not be renewed when it expires in June. Former South Africa captain and centre-back Komphela has failed to win a trophy during his tenure and the loss to Chippa banished any hopes of a late charge for the league title. Fourth-place Chiefs have only four fixtures remaining and are seven points behind leaders Mamelodi Sundowns, who have two games in hand, and six adrift of Orlando Pirates. Former schoolteacher Komphela refused to concede defeat in the title race, but said he understood the frustrations of Chiefs supporters at Soccer City stadium in Soweto. “If they do not blame me — who will they blame?” he asked reporters. “I have learnt to accept their anger and take it on the chin. “This was our third match in seven days and the team lacked energy. We also had no luck as the match could easily have ended in a 3-3 draw had we taken our chances.” Port Elizabeth-based Chippa, who climbed six places to seventh thanks to the victory, scored through Thabo Rakhale, Mxolisi Macuphu and Chiefs reject Edward Manqele. Recently appointed Serb coach Vladislav Heric hailed the Chippa players after a result that would have been unimaginable just a few seasons ago. “My boys were brilliant, tactically brilliant. I have never seen them perform at such a high level before,” he said. “It bodes well for the future and my immediate task is to bring them back to earth and prepare for our next match.” Maritzburg United took advantage of Chiefs losing to replace them in third place despite being held 1-1 by Cape Town City in eastern city Pietermaritzburg. Belgian Andrea Fileccia gave United a 28th-minute lead they held until the first minute of stoppage time when Kenyan Masoud Juma equalised for sixth-place Cape Town. Bottom club Platinum Stars won for only the fourth time in 26 outings when Malawian Gerald Phiri bagged a second-half brace in a 2-0 home win over Polokwane City. Stars, who finished third last season, are three points behind Ajax Cape Town and only the club finishing last are automatically relegated. Free State Stars halted a recent run of losses by holding Golden Arrows 1-1 in Durban. -AFP