The political party said it has it on good authority that some community members have been coerced with money by China Dodovu and ANC Youth League President Collin Maine whom BLF accuses of being chief organizers of the mayhem. The accusation comes after a meeting which was held in the province last week to the unrest by some residents who are demanding the resignation of Premier Supra Mahumapelo, citing allegations of corruption. BLF said the protests are part of the program of President Ramaphosa faction to use the money to sponsor a counter-revolutionary situation in the North West with the main objective of removing Mahumapelo because he was seen as former president Jacob Zuma’s supporter. BLF Head of Media and Communications Brian Tloubatla accuses the former Member MEC of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs and deputy provincial deputy chairperson China Dodovu of being the ringleader of the unrest which he said is funded by White Monopoly Capital(WMC) as he is a controversial figure in the province. Tloubatla said Dodovu was arrested and charged in 2013 with the now North West secretary of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Papiki Babuile for the murder of Oubuti Chika in the run-up to the ANC’s elective conference in Mangaung. At the time of his death, Chika was the regional secretary of the Dr Kenneth Kaunda district in the North West Province. “Mahumapelo has named Dodovu as one of the people who must be probed for corruption. The protests are a pre-emptive strike to evade the investigation into corruption. BLF accordingly calls for the following” Tloubatla said Ramaphosa must immediately distance himself from the sponsored protests in the province and distance himself from WMC backers who must desist from paying poor people to cause mayhem in the province. ” All those who have been paid or promised money to embark on the protests in the North West, must come forward and tell the truth. Our people in the North West must refuse to be used by those who are responsible for the Marikana massacre – if they love you, they should be sharing the wealth of the province with you,” he said. He called for the immediate establishments of a commission of enquiry which will get to the bottom of the unrest in order for the truth to come out. “The people of the North West Province are experiencing genuine service delivery challenges which must be addressed appropriately. In this context, we must refuse to be used by counter-revolutionary forces who have been brought to stop RET.” Said Tloubatla. -TNA Reporter