ONE of the women arrested with Winnie Madikizela-Mandela in 1969, Nondiwe Mankahla, 82, has travelled all the way from the Eastern Cape to attend he struggle icon’s funeral. Mankahla was arrested for carrying out activities of a banned party and for being suspected of belonging to an underground ANC network formed by Madikizela-Mandela. “I only got to know Winnie Madikizela-Mandela in 1969 when we got arrested because she was based in Gauteng by that time. My fondest memory of her is the conversations we had
with each other from our different cells through the walls about the struggle, our families and the other women that were detained with us. I did not know her prior to being arrested but over the years we had a close relationship,” Mankahla said. “There is nowhere else I would rather be on Saturday than to my dear friend’s funeral. Winnie fought hard for the freedom of the South Africans. She was courageous, her beauty was unquestionable.” She said the ANC Women’s League must keep Madikizela-Mandela legacy alive by fighting patriarchy and staying united and supportive of one another. These word echoed those of President Cyril Ramaphosa who said MadikizelaMandela would always be in the hearts of South Africans because of her strength and courage. The president called on men to stand against patriarchy because MadikizelaMandela would not approve. “She was always on the side of the youth and this is the relationship that earned her the title of mother of the nation. “She never betrayed the struggle because of fear of pain, hardship and punishment by the apartheid government. Instead she chose the path which dared the apartheid government to kill her instead,” Ramaphosa said. Mankahla was a youth activist of the ANC in PE in the early 1950s. She recalls working as a volunteer for the ANC, selling copies of New Age, the 1952 riots in New Brighton, the call-to people campaign which preceded the Congress of the People, the women’s anti-pass campaign which preceded the march to the Union Buildings and working with Govan Mbeki in the ANC offices until a number of people, including Mbeki, were arrested at the start of
the sabotage campaign. She said she was moved to be talking to The New Age as she recalled working as a volunteer for the ANC, selling copies of New Age in the 1950s. The newspaper then covered the ANC leaders abroad and openly supported the party’s military wing Umkhonto we Sizwe. After the Sharpeville massacre New Age reporters were regularly being detained. Financial constraints however led to the end of the publication when it got banned again in 1962. Madikizela-Mandela’s funeral will be at FNB Stadium tomorrow. The event is expected to be attended by prominent people. sisandam@thenewage.co.za