THE honeymoon is over as far as the Mining Charter update is concerned. The sweet talk between the government, represented by President Cyril Ramaphosa and Mineral Resources Minister Gwede Mantashe – and the mining companies, represented by the Chamber of Mines, was stalled yesterday when the Department of Mining Resources (DMR) announced that it would, after all, appeal the court judgment that kept in place the “once empowered, always empowered” clause in the charter. Industry watchers were surprised when the DMR did not immediately appeal last month’s high court ruling in favour of the once empowered, always empowered principle, which entitles mining companies to keep its black empowerment status even if a black partner exits its stake in the mining firm. The chamber has insisted that the clause was vital to the future viability of the entire mining industry. Uncertainty around the Mining Charter and ownership levels have deterred investment in a sector that accounts for 8% of the country’s economic output. The industry body, the Chamber of Mines, which was challenging the government’s draft mining charter – which specified that a black ownership target of 26% must be maintained throughout the life of the mine – welcomed the ruling at the time. The court decision caused a stir in many quarters and that put the minister in a spot, given mounting calls for him to appeal the decision. Then, out of the blue, the DMR dropped its bombshell yesterday that it will appeal the decision by the high court. Observers said the chickens are now coming home to roost and that Mantashe’s promise that the charter would be ready next month will clearly be derailed as a court battle looms between the DMR and the Chamber of Mines. Nathi Shabangu, the media liaison officer at DMR, said the department was still looking forward to “engaging with all stakeholders on the issue”. “We are looking forward to engage with the chamber of this matter.” The Chamber of Mines confirmed that it had been notified that the minister and the DMR have filed an application for leave to appeal the majority judgment and orders delivered last month. “We respect the statutory rights of the minister and the DMR to appeal the outcome of the judgment. The chamber is reviewing the specified grounds of appeal although the DMR’s appeal appears to centre on the majority judges’ comments about the legality of the 2010 charter and the enforceability of the charters,” the industry lobby group said. “We continued to state that we fully support the 2004 and 2010 charters as it (the chamber) was party to developing these charters and the industry has created substantial transformation through applying these charters.” Lebogang Molemi, a mining analyst, said this has been long coming. “If the government was to allow the court’s decision to pass unchallenged, it would mean radical economic transformation is just talk. “We are going back to square one. What happened with former minister Mosebenzi Zwane is coming back to haunt Mantashe. There will be no charter ready by next month as Mantashe promised. The court battle between the mining industry and government has just begun,” he said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za