Kaizer Chiefs owner and Chairperson Kaizer Motaung has condemned the actions of what he calls “people who claim to be the supporters of Kaizer Chiefs” urging them to stop their hooliganism immediately. Motaung said incidents like those witnessed on Saturday evening in Durban have no place anywhere in society and especially in football. Motaung issued his team’s official communication after Chiefs supporters vandalised Durban’s iconic Moses Mabhida Stadium by ripping out seats and setting seats alight following a 2-0 defeat by Free State Stars during a Nedbank Cup Semi Final match. Broadcast camera equipment was also damaged in the ensuing violence which saw security officials and other spectators sustaining injuries. “Acts of this nature endanger the lives of innocent people and cannot be tolerated under any circumstances” “We shall co-operate fully with law enforcement agencies and the PSL to ensure the perpetrators are brought to book” “Such behavior goes against the very ethos of what Amakhosi stands for, which is Love & Peace. It besmirches the reputation of the club and the millions of well-mannered supporters who make up the Kaizer Chiefs Family; it brings the game of football itself into disrepute and on a wider scale, it reflects very badly on our people and our country when the footage is disseminated across the world, “Motaung said. He said that as the team’s management, they understand the passion fans have and appreciate their sense of disappointment when results don’t go as expected. “Everybody at the club is working to the best of their ability to bring success on the field and joy to the fans. Sometimes though, despite the best efforts of everyone, things don’t fall seamlessly into place. “It is very difficult to always achieve the perfect combination. It is the nature of the sport that nobody wins all the time and accepting defeat graciously with dignity is one of the principles that underpin the virtue of sportsmanship,” he said. Motaung said the team prides itself on having knowledgeable fans and also respect their right to express their dissatisfaction with the team’s performance. However, he said venting frustration through violence was totally unacceptable. “The support of fans has a tremendously positive effect in boosting the confidence of the players, particularly during a slump. “Some of the world’s greatest clubs have endured lean spells during which silverware has temporarily dried up but they have come back stronger than ever. “We need everybody pulling in the same direction and we, therefore, implore all of our supporters to calm down and get behind the team for the next three matches of the season,” said Motaung. -TNA Reporter