“The passing of anti-apartheid activist and politician Winnie Madikizela-Mandela is a personal loss for our team and the LGBTI community as a whole,” co-founder of the Feather Awards Thami Kotlolo said on Wednesday. “Mama supported our work and our efforts and encouraged us to continue fighting for our rights as the LGBTI community.” Madikizela-Mandela passed away at the Netcare Milpark Hospital in Johannesburg on Monday. She had been in and out of hospital due to an infection affecting her kidneys. “Her own fight for human rights during and even post-apartheid has inspired many of us to raise our voices and not settle for anything but full freedom and protection of our rights to equality.” The passing of Mama Winnie is a personal loss for our team and the LGBTI community as a whole. Mama supported our work and our efforts and encouraged us to continue fighting for our rights as the LGBTI community. Her own fight for human rights during and even post apartheid has inspired many of us to raise our voices and not settle for anything but full freedom and protection of our rights to equality. Our thoughts and prayers are with her children, grandkids and many others who adored her and aligned themselves with her work.  Rest in power Mama A post shared by  The Feather Awards SA (@featherssa) on Apr 3, 2018 at 12:41pm PDT  Mama A post shared by  Thami Dish (@thamidish) on Apr 2, 2018 at 8:04am PDT  Mama ♥️ A post shared by  Thami Dish (@thamidish) on Apr 3, 2018 at 2:05am PDT  The Madikizela family in a statement said Madikizela-Mandela died peacefully, surrounded by her family and loved ones. “It is with profound sadness that we inform the public that Mrs Winnie Madikizela-Mandela passed away at the Netcare Milpark Hospital in Johannesburg, South Africa on Monday 2 April 2018. “She died after a long illness, for which she had been in and out of the hospital since the start of the year. She succumbed peacefully in the early hours of Monday afternoon surrounded by her family and loved ones. “Mrs Madikizela-Mandela was one of the greatest icons of the struggle against apartheid. She fought valiantly against the apartheid state and sacrificed her life for the freedom of the country. Her activism and resistance to apartheid landed her in jail on numerous occasions, eventually causing her banishment to the small town of Brandfort in the then Orange Free State. “She kept the memory of her imprisoned husband Nelson Mandela alive during his years on Robben Island and helped give the struggle for justice in South Africa one of its most recognisable faces. She dedicated most of her adult life to the cause of the people and for this was known far and wide as the Mother of the Nation. “The Mandela family are deeply grateful for the gift of her life and even as our hearts break at her passing, we urge all those who loved her to celebrate this most remarkable woman. The family will release details of the memorial and funeral services once these have been finalised. -TNA Reporter