ANC Youth League (ANCYL) President Collen Maine on Wednesday revealed that he was introduced to the Guptas by North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo. He made the revelation during a memorial service for late struggle icon Winnie Madikizela-Mandela in Ikageng, Potchefstroom. Maine however denied being introduced to the Guptas by former President Jacob Zuma. In a video clip recorded during the memorial service, Maine said he did not take himself to the Gupta family. During the memorial service, Maine praised the late struggle veteran for “remaining true” to the movement by refusing to go to the Guptas. “Mama Winnie never went to the Guptas like some of us did and we did not take ourselves there, we were taken to the Guptas. She never wanted to do that because she remained true to the ANC. I was taken there comrades… in the first place, I was not supposed to go there. I was not taken there by Zuma. The person who took me there is Supra Obakeng Mahumapelo,” Maine said. The ANCYL leader also said that if ever the actions led to him being taken to court at some stage, his supporters must never support him during the court appearance. “If my going there means that at some point I must appear in court, don’t follow me, you never said I must go there. Take the ANC out of that. Don’t follow me if I must go to court, I went there on my own. We rather face the consequences, not the organisation. We rather as individuals face the consequences of our actions, not the ANC.” In 2016, Maine defended his relationship with the controversial Gupta family saying that, if he went to Saxonwold, it would have been a private matter. He said then in his defence that he was not forced by any law to declare where he went. Good Morning to everyone except for Supra Mahumapelo for selling Collen Maine's soul to the Guptas. The Hawks should find Supra Mahumapelo wherever he's hiding & arrest him. He's been in hiding ever since they searched his office. pic.twitter.com/7AcG4GEnD3 — Man's Not Barry Roux (@AdvBarryRoux) April 12, 2018  -TNA Reporter