THE ANC has described Zola Skweyiya’s passing as the loss of a veteran, Constitutional expert, diplomat and leader. The 75-year-old’s death comes during a period of mourning for fellow struggle veteran Winnie Madikizela-Mandela who died last week. The national executive committee and the membership of the party sent their condolences to his wife Thuthukile Skweyiya and the entire family for their loss. “The movement mourns with them as we celebrate the life of this gentle giant,” the ANC said. Bantu Holomisa said the passing of Zola Skweyiya meant another giant has fallen, he described Skweyiya as a thinker. “In his professional capacity, as minister of public service and administration (1994-99) he was a competent man who had been earnest about achieving the goals of the department. “As minister of social development (1999- 09) he was the great architect of the new public administration,” Holomisa said. He said the millions who benefit from the social security owe their sustenance to Skweyiya. “It’s a transformation ethos and a social security system that responded to the millions of the most vulnerable of our citizenry,” he said. The Congress of the South African Trade Unions (Cosatu) said Skweyiya was owed a lot of gratitude for fighting apartheid. “Skweyiya will be remembered as a fearless and straight-talking activist, who loved his country and fought relentlessly against the tyranny of white minority rule,” it said. Cosatu said they saluted him for his contribution in championing the cause of freedom. “We lower our banners in honour of this courageous struggle veteran. We remain inspired by his bravery and unflinching dedication to the cause of our liberation,” it said. Justice Albie Sachs, writing on behalf of the Oliver & Adelaide Tambo Foundation, described Skweyiya as a hard working, collegial person with a strong, independent and critical mind. “He never sought the limelight for himself,” he said. Sachs said, at times, Skweyiya’s demeanour seemed stern, he said that he was a man with great generosity and a sharp sense of humour and a natural democrat. “He hated apartheid with a passion and truly believed in the Freedom Charter declarations that South Africa ‘belongs to all who live in it’ and that the ‘people shall govern’.” The Nelson Mandela Foundation has also sent its deepest condolences to the family, friends and comrades of Skweyiya. They said he devoted his life to attaining and nurturing democracy in the country. “Madiba respected the work he did in the field of HIV-Aids. In 2002, Madiba spoke of how he was moved by Skweyiya’s efforts to help people stigmatised by their HIV-positive status,” the foundation said. The Dullah Omar Institute said Skweyiya was the engine room of the intellectual foundation of the South African Constitution. The institute said that he fully represented the unwavering commitment to justice and the protection of the marginalised that characterised the generation of leadership that ushered in democracy. “He urged those in power to use their positions and influence not for their own benefit but to improve the well-being of all South Africans,” the institute said. The South African Communist Party said Skweyiya played his part in the rank and file of the liberation movement and its collective leadership, which according to the Communist party should be recognised. “This is the task that our liberation movement and the government – itself a product of our liberation struggle, must fulfil in consolidating a coherent programme to document the history of the struggle and stalwarts,” the party said. The Minister of International Relations and Cooperation, the honourable Lindiwe Sisulu, extended her condolences to the family of the former ambassador and minister, who served as high commissioner to the UK and Northern Ireland. “He crafted the ethos of Batho Pele. He lived them and insisted that the public service is professional and all public servants serve the people with the same commitment and dedication. “He also extended his professionalism and commitment to the diplomatic family when he was appointed high commissioner to the UK and Ireland. Young people learnt a lot from him,” Sisulu said. “He has left us with a lot of intellectual inheritance. We were very fortunate to have him in the diplomatic family”, Sisulu said. Details of the memorial service will be communicated early next week. –HLONI MASHIGO|hlonim@thenewage.co.za