SOUTH Africa’s third-largest bank, Barclays Africa Group, yesterday announced it would be split into four units – retail and business banking (RBB), investment banking, wealth and the rest of Africa. South Africa Banking will cease to be a management or reporting segment, it said. Deputy group CEO David Hodnett, who joined in 2008 and joined the board as an executive director in 2010, will take a two-month sabbatical. Reasons for the sabbatical were not disclosed. Bongiwe Gangeni, head of distribution at wealth, investment management and insurance, joins the group executive committee to lead private and business banking, and also as deputy CEO of retail and business banking SA. Corporate and investment banking (CIB) will be a separate business under the leadership of a CEO. Temi Ofong and Mike Harvey will continue as co-CEOs of CIB, reporting to group CEO Maria Ramos, while Hodnett is on sabbatical. RBB SA will be led by Arrie Rautenbach as CEO, while Peter Matlare remains in his role as CEO of return on assets and group deputy CEO. Nomkhita Nqweni continues in her role as CEO of Wimi while Yasmin Masithela, of compliance, has been appointed CEO of strategic services. In March, Ramos said a new entrepreneurial culture and digitisation would be central to the success of the strategy she presented. In this role, Masithela assumes responsibility for the bank’s digital strategy, human resources and group strategy and takes over the lead of the separation from Barclays PLC. Charles Russon, currently group chief operating officer will become chief technology officer, responsible for managing technology infrastructure, cyber and data while August van Heerden, currently head of the separation programme, will become chief risk officer and part of the executive committee. “We have set a bold ambition to double our share of Africa banking revenues, digitising our organisation end to end and presenting bold propositions to meet the needs of our customers and clients,” Ramos said. “This executive committee will work with leaders and colleagues throughout our business who were also instrumental in shaping our strategy and the group’s new ambition.” The group plans to double its market share of African banking revenues from 6% to 12%. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za