EMERGING from tense meetings that were characterised by violent protests by disgruntled members at the weekend in KwaZulu-Natal, the ANC’s national working committee (NWC) said its provincial structures are ready to stage regional and provincial conferences “very soon”. ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule, speaking after a meeting of the NWC, said the outgoing provincial interim committee had been converted into a provincial task team to enable it to remain in office for another nine months. “At the weekend, members of the national working committee, officials and NEC members are spread throughout the province to meet with our structure because the ANC believes that we should always seek to consult our structures so that we arrive at sober decisions that forges unity and cohesion. “Throughout the province, where there were people who were not happy, we allowed them into our meeting so that we engaged with them,” Magashule said. He said it was agreed that the conferences should go ahead after getting the nod from the party’s full NEC. “We unanimously agreed that we are ready for regional conferences. We are ready for a provincial conference and we are happy that our structures are busy ensuring that there is unity and cohesion in the province,” he said on behalf of the NWC. This follows Sunday’s turmoil which saw angry members in the eThekwini and Moses Mabhida regions storming regional meetings, as well as in Pietermaritzburg and at the Moses Mabhida Stadium conference venue. “Yes, there are some challenges here and there but the entire provincial task team is working together to forge unity and cohesion,” he said. On the violent calls to fire North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo, Magashule said: “The North West issue is an ongoing discussion because there is an organisational issue and governing issues. The government is dealing with the issues that are related to government and we have actually mandated the president to deal with the government issues while the ANC is continuing to deal with organisational issues.” Meanwhile, the ANC has announced former Western Cape premier Ebrahim Rasool as the head of the ANC’s election campaign, signalling its readiness to reclaim support in the province. At a briefing in Cape Town yesterday the party’s election head Fikile Mbalula said the ANC was not averse to accepting Patricia de Lille if she is kicked out from her post as mayor by the DA. -SIHLE MAVUSO AND DENNIS CRUYWAGEN