eThekwini Mayor Zandile Gumede has on Wednesday revealed that R2.6 million worth of
damage was caused by rampaging Kaizer Chiefs fans to Durban’s world cup Moses Mabhida Stadium on Saturday. Gumede revealed the figure during a press briefing at the stadium while flanked by stadium manager Vusi Mazibuko the and councilor Thembo Ntuli. The Mayor said that there was a long list of damaged infrastructure and confirmed that insurance claims to recover the funds have already been initiated. Mazibuko: There were over chairs damage in Saturday’s chaos @MMStadium @ANN7tv @The_New_Age pic.twitter.com/VUfJyanwh7 — Sibongiseni Maphumulo (@SiboMaphumulo) April 25, 2018 ” The stadium will share the report on the cost of the damage and liaise with other stakeholders,” she said. Gumede also confirmed that despite the damage, the stadium currently remains fully functional and had not canceled any bookings owing to the damage. Meanwhile, stadium manager Vusi Mazibuko said that the South African Police Service was the one responsible for providing security at the match and that the number of security guards deployed was determined by the number of spectators in attendance. According to Mazibuko, the design of the stadium allows for easy access to the pitch because it is an assembly point in the event of an emergency. ” Even if you put a barrier, that barrier must be collapsible in the event of an incident, ” he said. Meanwhile, Mazibuko said reports that the City of Durban pays Kaizer Chiefs to play its games in the city were completely false. ” The city has a three-year contract with Chiefs to bring three of their league games and two knockout games to Durban. The model is a mutually beneficial one as match attendance averages 25000. We said to Chiefs we want to have your matches but we do not want to pay you. We said to them we want to have a share in ticket sales,” he said. According to Mazibuko the revenue generated from the first 22 000 tickets sold go to the city and then from there the stadium takes 60% of what is left over while other income is generated from hospitality. Meanwhile, Phelelani Jojisa who thus far remains the only person arrested following the violence on Saturday is due back in court today. -TNA Reporter