COMPANIES implicated in collusion are facing heavy fines for their part in nine projects involving Gautrain Rapid Link, the Lesotho Highlands project and a Coega Harbour project. The Competition Commission in its filing notice found that Rodio Geotechnics and five other companies in the construction sector were party to a number of formal and ad hoc agreements in the market for the provision of piling, grouting and geotechnical drilling investigative services. Respondents in this matter are Esorfranki, Dura Soltanche Bachy, Geomechanics, Diabor and Grinaker LTA operating as Aveng Africa and Rodio Geotechnics. Esorfranki and Diabor chellenged the commission’s complaint in a hearing before the tribunal yesterday. These firms are said to have kept and managed scorecards with an agreed percentage of the market share allocated to each of these firms for piling, grouting and geotechnical drilling. Rodio Geotechnics through a joint venture between it and GEL has admitted to engaging in collusive tendering, market division and price fixing in a number of markets. In the Gautrain Rapid Rail link project section DP6, despite Bombela refusing to allow the Esorfranki, Dura and GEL (Ground Engineering Ltd) to form a consortium, an agreement was allegedly concluded in which Rogel and Esorfranki provided a R50m cover price so that Dura-Geomechanic JV could win the contract for the OR Tambo/Malboro drilling investigation project. Rogel and Dura agreed to provide a cover price to ensure joint venture Diabor, Geomechanics and Soiltech (a division of Esorfranki) won the contract for the Braamhoek dam grouting project. Rogel entered into a collusive agreement with Dura in term of which Dura agreed to submit a cover price. Rogel won the contract. In the Lesotho Highlands project, six companies including Rogel colluded to ensure Rogel would be awarded the contract for the geotechnical drilling investigation services in relation to the Polihale dam and transfer tunnel in Lesotho. The commission in its complaint said in return Rogel agreed to submit a cover price in the Gautrain project. In the Coega Habour diaphragm wall, GEL and Rogel did not submit a bid for this project to ensure that Dura won the contract. Dura was subsequently appointed as a subcontractor. Other companies who have settled are Duro Solanche Bachy and Geomechanics. Grinaker-LTA has applied for corporate leniency. The administrative penalty awarded to Rodio is about 5% of Rodio’s total South African revenue in its financial year ended 2010. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za