Superstar DJ Black Coffee has come under fire from South Africans for his performance in Israel which has been labelled a “boycott of the picket line”. The international DJ shared a video of his successful gig in Tel Aviv on Monday but it wasn’t warmly received. Venice was dope with @LocoDiceOFC next stop Naples. pic.twitter.com/YxL7JlwJBp — #PIECESOFME (@RealBlackCoffee) April 2, 2018  The human rights and Palestine solidarity organisation (BDS) South Africa expressed its disappointment in Black Coffee’s decision to “once again perform in Tel Aviv in violation of the cultural boycott of Israel”. South Africans are angry with DJ Black Coffee for performing in a country that is viewed as  “anti-African.” Israel is viewed as similar to South Africa’s apartheid era because Palestinians are believed to be oppressed by Israeli forces. Israel is accused of illegally occupying Palestinian land and also depriving the rights of their citizens. BDS South Africa said it, with a group of progressive Jewish Israelis, had tried to engage with the artist before his performance, by writing to him in attempt to stop him from performing but “he ignored and chose not to engage with either letter”. EFF Deputy President Floyd Shivambu also questioned DJ Black Coffee’s actions. That Israel is killing innocent Palestinians & continuing with the occupation doesn’t matter? A DJ from SA, a country that benefited due to international solidarity must just go to Israel for a party & we Black people celebrate such? Where’s the political & moral consciousness? — Floyd Shivambu (@FloydShivambu) April 2, 2018  South Africa’s isolation and the Academic & Cultural boycott are part of the reasons Apartheid capitulated to the call for freedom. It is morally & politically insensitive for DJ Black Coffee to just go on partying in Apartheid Israel, whilst it kills & oppresses innocent people. — Floyd Shivambu (@FloydShivambu) April 2, 2018  However, following the backlash, DJ Black Coffee defended himself saying that he was just an entertainer trying to feed his family. Like everyone else I have rights and free will and no Black Coffee is not a political party…I work as an entertainer to feed my Family.To sum it up….I'll take a bullet for my Family. — #PIECESOFME (@RealBlackCoffee) April 2, 2018  Brother Black Coffee also. That Israeli thing is just bad. Your family doesnt deserve to eat from the  blood of the Palestinian children. Artists sacrificed for the liberation of S.A. they refused to break the cultural boycott. No one is neutral in the face of injustice. — andile (@Mngxitama) April 2, 2018  These idiots that don’t understand cultural boycotts don’t understand the politics of oppression. #BlackCoffee should hang his head in shame. Going to Israel especially now is unforgivable, he should know better. #FreePalestine — Kananelo Sexwale  (@kaysexwale) April 3, 2018  Feeding family comes with principles and values you can't feed your family at the suffering of other people. #BlackCoffee — Thapelo (@mokhathi) April 2, 2018  -TNA Reporter