Tributes are pouring in for TV and Radio personality Akhumzi Jezile along with actor/singer Siyasanga Kobese and Thobani Mseleni who passed away in a car accident on Saturday in Queenstown in the Eastern Cape. Jezile was best known for his role as SABC kids programme YoTV presenter, which he joined as a presenter and later went on to produce The Big Breakfast show and Live Amp on SABC 1. He also had a role on SABC drama ‘Tempy Pushas’ where he featured as Ngulube.  The minister of Arts and Culture, Nathi Mthethwa reacted with shock on the passing of the three entertainers. “The minister of Arts and Culture is devastated to learn of the tragic death of not one three of the beloved artists in a car accident. We understand that these are not the only lives to meet an untimely death in the car accident in question,” said the minister The accident involved three known entertainers including former Joyous Celebration member Siyasanga Kobese was known for her role as Siphokazi in Zabalaza and as a former Joyous Celebration member. It is with great sadness to have lost our JC Alumni member, Siyasanga Kobese. She met her sudden death in an accident earlier yesterday. Lets keep their families in prayer and treat their passing with respect. May their souls Rest In Peace (images ©️JC 2012  @thembandala ) pic.twitter.com/u4RGi8Ccd7 — #AllForYou (@JoyousSA) April 29, 2018   Mseleni was known as an actor on Matatiele and Inxeba The wound.  My heartfelt condolences go out to the families of Akhumzi Jezile, Siyasanga Kobese, Thobani Mseleni and the other 2 people who passed in the accident. May your families and loved ones be comforted  #RipAkhumzi #RIPSiya #RIPThobani — Minister of Energy (@radebe_jeff) April 29, 2018  About five people were reported to have passed away in the accident while the identities of the other two have not yet been revealed. Industry friends and colleagues of the actors have expressed shock and sadness to the news.  Death comes for the very old, the very young and for anything in between. It acts with ruthless efficiency. We always feel robbed when the young and gifted are ripped away from us because youth always gives us the illusion of more time. Your lives were short but full.  pic.twitter.com/J2JLGT1G6z — Khaya Dlanga (@khayadlanga) April 29, 2018  KidStar #AkhumziJezile passes away from a horror car accident. You would remember him from his debut KidsShow #YOtv on SABC1 – We liked to compare who was the best kid Presenter between him and I back when I did Craz-e on Etv  what a loss of great talent – Rest In Peace #AK♡ pic.twitter.com/KQaKrbKb1e — Kabelo ☆KB☆ Shomang (@KbShomang) April 29, 2018  It’s painful that Akhumzi Jezile, Siyasanga Kobese and Thobani Mseleni have reportedly passed on from a car crash. All of them were a great inspiration to fellow youth in South Africa. May their souls Rest In Peace!#RipAkhumzi #RIPSiyasanga #RIPThobani pic.twitter.com/m747OQEnTQ — loveLife (@loveLifeNGO) April 28, 2018  R.I.P Akhumzi Jezile, Thobani Mseleni and Siyasanga Kobese | Gone too soon. pic.twitter.com/d4LhKBxaNX — MTVAfrica (@MTVAfrica) April 28, 2018   My car carrying me and my twins was inches away when this horrible accident happened. Now I am shaken to drive back home – Lord care for the soul of Producer Akhumzi Jezile #RIPAkhumzi and all the souls that perished before our eyes. May their souls rest pic.twitter.com/q6p29CStz9 — Mandla Maseko (@mandlakaise9) April 29, 2018  #RIPTHOBANI May all 5souls Rest In PowerThobani Mseleni, Siyasanga Kobese, Akhumzi Jezile, &the other 2 people who lost their lives in a car accident. 2names have not been confirmed yet. Sincere condolences 2their families.#RIPSiyasanga #RIPAkhumzi #RIPThobani #CountryDuty — Tutubillion (@Tutubillion1) April 29, 2018  -TNA Reporter