DURBAN’S Moses Mabhida Stadium has been left counting the costs after Kaizer Chiefs fans, angered by the team’s 2-0 defeat to Free State Stars in the Nedbank Cup semifinal, went on the rampage on Saturday. The ugly incident has left many fans shaken. Among them was a Durban father who had taken his nine-year-old son to his first ever live soccer game. “We watched in disbelief with my son on my shoulders as the chaos started,” he said. “When we saw the police and security guards retreating I realised that it was getting out of hand.” The man said that as he and his son were getting into their car they heard what sounded like a gunshot. “My son asked me if that was a gunshot. Before we got to the gate we heard two more shots, he asked if they were shooting at people and I said it was probably in the air,” the father said. Stadium manager Vusi Mazibuko said the damage could add up to millions of rands after fans set fire to seating areas and hurled objects before breaking down some of the barrier fencing. “There is extensive damage to the stadium including seating, crowd barriers and access gates, as well as general vandalism,” Mazibuko said. “Five vehicles were damaged in the media compound parking area. We will confirm within the next 48 hours the total cost of the damage.” He and the police, who had to use teargas and stun grenades to disperse the rioting crowd, have denied social media reports that one person died. Mazibuko said 18 people were injured during the pitch invasion, including a female security guard who was beaten unconscious by the fans. At least 12 people had to be treated by medics at the stadium and five others taken to hospital. “All have since been discharged.” So far two people have been arrested, the police have said. “Two suspects aged 27 and 33 were arrested for public violence and malicious damage to property. They will appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court,” Capt Nqobile Gwala said. PSL spokesperson, Lux September, condemned the incident. “This is not a football problem but a societal problem. “It happened in the North West last week. People burn libraries when they are angry. It can never be right.” The PSL did not say who would bear the cost of the damage to the stadium or the expensive SuperSport cameras on Saturday night. Kaizer Chiefs spokesperson Vina Maphosa, said the executive committee was in a meeting yesterday to discuss the matter. Amakhosi were recently slapped with a R250000 fine when their fans went on the rampage after losing 3-0 to Chippa United in a league match but R200000 of the amount was suspended. If found guilty of Saturday’s violence, they will have to fork out the R200000 and likely be hit with a heavier penalty. Meanwhile, the ANC in the province has called for harsh sentences against those linked to the soccer violence -TNA Reporter