SEVENTY families facing eviction from privately owned land at Klein Akker, have instructed lawyers to challenge the decision claiming that the city of Cape Town had failed to provide them with alternative and safe accommodation. Lawyers for the informal settlement community in Kraaifontein said the city failed to provide the community with adequate alternative accommodation as prescribed in a court order. The eviction order was granted in 2016 against 70 families, some of whom had been living in the area for as long as 17 years. Stellenbosch University Law Clinic lawyer Chris Julius said the affected residents did not want to move to an area the city had offered to relocate them to because they did not think they would be safe there. “They are supposed to be relocated to a temporary area in Bloekombos which is notorious for violence and the community is not willing to move there unless their safety can be guaranteed. “Obviously the municipality has not complied with those criteria and therefore we have instructions to further litigation and see how we can address that,” Julius said. The community said the city of Cape Town had not provided adequate temporary emergency housing as ordered by the court. Anna Marie Schoeman had been living at Klein Akker since 2000. Originally from Wellington, she first lived in a caravan on the site. She later acquired a wooden structure which she now calls home. The informal settlement had grown over the years with some living in dilapidated buildings while others are in makeshift dwellings. Some of the residents are farm workers and others who settled in the area after they were evicted from other areas. There is no electricity and only a few communal taps are available. Residents said they were not opposed to being relocated but they wanted to be guaranteed safety. The city said an agreement had been signed for residents of Klein Akker to move to the Wallacedene Phase Nine area. They had not been informed about any threats in the area. Lawyers for the landowner said they wanted to develop the land for industrial use and the delay had a major financial impact on them. The Klein Akker community have vowed to turn to the court for the city to guarantee their safety. provinces@thenewage.co.za -TATENDA CHIRISERI