THE South African government has condemned a travel advisory by the Australian government to its citizens. This comes after Australia warned its citizens to exercise a high degree of caution and “to be aware of the high level of serious crime” in South Africa. In the advisory, the Australian authorities paint South Africa as the “crime capital of the world” where police are powerless while also warning its citizens about a number of issues including the high rate of HIV, the drought crisis in the Western Cape and the threat of
terrorism among others. It also urges its citizens to stay away from large gatherings and protest action. The Department of International Relations and Cooperation (Dirco) has come out strongly against the Australian government. Not mincing its words, Pretoria said it took strong exception to the travel advisory which contains misleading information about South Africa in general and about the experiences of tourists visiting the country. Dirco said Minister Lindiwe Sisulu would raise the government’s concerns as the advisory has the potential to deter visitors and tarnish the country’s image. “South Africa remains one of the most popular tourist destinations in the world and tourists in most instances have pleasant experiences of our country,” Sisulu said. Dirco said it had in the past tried to get Australia to revise the advisory to reflect the true experiences of foreign visitors to the country with no success. This is the second incident involving Australia in what can be interpreted as an attack on South Africa’s image. This comes after the Australian Minister of Home Affairs, Peter Dutton, said Australia would fast-track visas for white farmers who were “being persecuted in SA”. Dutton’s comments drew a sharp response from Sisulu who demanded he withdraw his statement as it was false and created a narrative that white farmers were being persecuted. His statement was in response to SA’s expropriation of land without compensation policy debate. leratod@thenewage.co.za