CASTER Semenya may have won many honours on the local and international stage, but there are two events she is yet to win and that’s the world indoors and intercontinental titles. These are the medals Semenya is targeting after she won double at the recently concluded Commonwealth Games in Australia where she clinched gold in the 1 500m and 800m. She has done this by taking to the track and winning by strategic race planning. She has also broken records and many people will ask what’s left for her to achieve in her career. “I think breaking records are still the goals. I think I have all major titles now, if you look into from nationals to All Africa games,” she said. “In Africa, I will say I have everything and in the world, I will say the same except intercontinentally. “I look at Maria Mutola’s record and the only thing that I’m left with is the world indoors and intercontinental. “So if I can be able to do that, I would have fulfilled all I wanted to achieve. My role model has broken that, I have now equalled that so for me now is to inspire the world.” The 27 year old wants to be remembered like the greatest Jamaican athlete, Usain Bolt, and she believes that winning everything will lead her to that. “If I can be able to break not South African records but also a world record I will be in the list of greatest athletes who have ever lived,” she said. “This is more than a game for me. I have done everything that I could do, now is all about showing the world what I’m made of and what I’m capable of doing. “It is no longer about medals any more, it is about putting the mark out there that if Usain Bolt can be the greatest what can I be. “I want to inspire the youth so that when I walk out there, the kids will say ‘wow, I want to be like that one’. These are the things that you want – to inspire the youth.” Following her success at the Commonwealth Games, Semenya was honoured by Tshwane University of Technology yesterday when she was given two gold medals and R6 500. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za