Today marks a new day for Afrotone Media Holdings, which launches its revamped 24-hour news channel and its sister newspaper operations. The 24-hour news channel ANN7 on Dstv 405 and The New Age newspaper have made way for the revitalised and new look Afro Worldview and Afro Voice respectively. Afrotone Media Holdings has promised a refreshing and unmatched Afrocentricity on both its platforms. Afro Worldview, a rebrand of the ANN7 went live from 6 am this morning, while Afro Voice hit the streets today. The new changes have been described as a strategic decision to break away from the past and give viewers a fresh outlook on the news. As part of the strategy, shareholder, and owner of Afrotone Media Holdings, Mzwanele Manyi, said the channel had adopted a new look and feel. The new developments will go with a renewed editorial policy in line with the Broadcasting Complains Complaints Commission of South Africa (BCCSA) code. on top of many other things, the channel will also bring more on screen and behind the screen talent. “Afro Voice relaunched with a new editorial policy that is in line with the press code. One major thing we have done as a group was to ensure we have a clean break. As we sit here, the black shareholders who own this space own it on a clean slate and with transparency” One major thing we have done as a group was to ensure we have a clean break. As we sit here the black shareholders who own this space own it on a clean slate with transparency” He said from his Midrand offices yesterday. “Afro Worldview’s vision is to be the trusted voice of Africa and will strive to be the most representative voice of the country and the continent, that will also ensure that the plight of the poor and the marginalised is brought to the fore,” Manyi said. He said the bidding process to award a new black-owned news channel was still underway and the final decision on the winning bidder would be announced by MultiChoice at the end of July. The channel will stop broadcasting on DStv on 20 August as the contract to broadcast ANN7 on DStv will not be renewed. Afro Worldview is, however, participating in the bidding process for the proposed new black-owned news channel on MultiChoice’s DStv platform. -Kutullo Madisha