IN AN incident that reveals how our correctional services are under severe strain, two prison warders were stabbed and a prisoner scalded with boiling water during a ritual between two rival gangs at the Goodwood Correctional Facility in Cape Town on Sunday morning. In Gauteng, there was a spectacular escape of 16 awaiting-trial prisoners from the Sun City prison (Johannesburg Correctional Centre). These and other escapes and gang-related crimes demonstrate a prison system in crisis. The Goodwood incident on Sunday led to an immediate lockdown of the facility. The warders were attacked when they opened the cells for prisoners to get breakfast. Correctional services department spokesperson Simphiwe Xako said: “One of them was stabbed critically in the chest several times and when a second prison warden tried to come to his rescue, he was also attacked.” Xako said it was believed the attack was part of a gang ritual. “Apparently, there was a prisoner that was transferred from St Albans in Port Elizabeth to Goodwood prison. When he arrived, he told the other prisoners that he was a general in terms of the prison gang language so they told him he has to prove himself so they usually do this by stabbing.” The warders were taken to hospital for treatment and have since been discharged and they are now recuperating at home. “It involved members of both the 28 and 26 gang. Fortunately, we were assisted by police services and we searched all the cells and confiscated a number of self-made weapons such as knives,” Xako said. Head of the SAPS’s Operation Combat Maj-Gen Jeremy Veary said that there were distinctions to be made between gang initiation processes in the prison system and those in the streets. “There is a pattern of gang initiations taking place at weekends, after lockdown takes place on Friday afternoons in Cape Town prisons and it has a history spanning more than 150 years. Gangs operating in communities recruit new members based on their ‘business model’, as they will need people to fill various roles.” Meanwhile, last month, 11 Mossel Bay inmates were on trial for the murders of two rival gangsters at a youth prison in another gang ritual attack. The accused are believed to be members of the 26s prison gang and also face seven counts of attempted murder. They were allegedly part of a group that attacked members of the 28s gang almost two years ago. The accused were incarcerated at the Mossel Bay Youth Correctional Centre in March 2016. They shared a prison cell with members of the 28s gang and divided the room with beds. On March 29, violence erupted shortly after supper when the inmates returned to their cells. The accused allegedly launched an attack on members of the rival gang using sharp objects. Two men were killed and seven others were wounded. Countrywide security at prisons is proving to be very hard to maintain. In Gauteng’s Sun City escape, 16 prisoners, including murderers and robbers who were supposed to appear in court today, are still on the run after they escaped yesterday morning about 3am. Prisoner rights activist Golden Miles Bhudu said escapes like this were due to overcrowding in correctional facilities that are also understaffed. There have also been recent incidents at Pollsmoor Prison in the Western Cape where six prisoners escaped from the youth and juvenile section and also incidents in Mdantsane in the Eastern Cape. The total capacity of prisons is 118 154 people, with 25 000 places being reserved for people awaiting trial detainees (ATD). The total prison population is 162 162, of which 49 695 (31%) are ATDs and 112 467 (69%) are sentenced offenders. Nationally, there is an overcrowding level of 137%. -TATENDA CHIRISERI, KUTULLO MADISHA|kutullom@thenewage.co.za