The nation is coming to terms with the reality that the world has lost one of the icons of the South African liberation struggle in Mama Winnie Mandela, whose light comes to an end in this the year when we are remembering Tata Madiba’s centenary of birth. There should be no doubt that Mama Winnie was a liberation leader in her own right – her defiance, at times, even of Nelson Mandela himself is well documented. The two are undeniably linked, even in death. In one of the letters that she wrote to her husband, while he was in prison and which we are privileged to read, Mama Winnie writes of how when she said: “I do” at their wedding in the bush veld in Pondoland, she not only said “I do” to him, Nelson Mandela as a person, but “I do” for everything that he stood for. By then, at the age of 23, she had already developed a political conscience that made it easy for her to decide to dedicate her life not only to being a freedom fighter but to freedom itself. Mama Winnie, the advocate and protector of the rights of others was developed and evident from an early age, she had to care for her elder sister and later her own mother who both contracted and died of TB. When her mother died, she also had to care for her youngest brother, a responsibility she carried with the dignity we have all come to admire in her. Her father was concerned that her instinct to question injustices of the system would get her in trouble with the authorities. She recounted several formative incidents that are said to have raised her level of consciousness. One of these happened as the Second World War came to an end, she and other blacks were barred from attending a white only celebration at the Bizana Town Hall. She became further politicised in junior high school in Qumbu by some of her teachers who happened to be Fort Hare graduates. When she moved to Johannesburg to study social work, she was touched by the social impact of the cruel apartheid regime and decided to use her education to fight for its victims. Her commitment to the people was on display when she turned down a scholarship to study in the US. She was deeply troubled by the high infant mortality rate in the township of Alexandra so she chose to practice at the Baragwanath Hospital instead. She has never left her beloved people since then, she accepted her calling to nurture and care for those in need and a voice for those without. Throughout the past few days we have been reminded of the immense suffering that this resilient woman had to endure. While we must not individualise her contribution to the struggle, we remember with gratitude her pioneering role in the struggle for empowerment of women, she was a symbol for women participating in the struggle in general and of women who participate in areas that were previously dominated by men. The nation she dedicated her life to mourns her sudden departure but is grateful for her unconquerable soul, her resolute determination, steadfast courage and a passion for justice which enabled her to stand her ground. This indeed was often the reason she was vilified and hated by her enemies – her resilience, her determination which remained with her till the very end. Mama Winnie did more than just survive the cruelty of the apartheid regime, she emerged from its prisons and torture and intimidation machinery exhausted but not broken. She emerged smiling beautifully with her head held up and her fist raised to the sky, a symbol of hope for thousands of women who were also suffering from persecution by an illegitimate government of the time. Mama Winnie embodied the character of a revolution, like a true revolutionary she understood that revolutions could only be sustained by the next generation. It was her belief that being part of their growth and development was the pathway to the national democratic society. In these moments we reflect both as individuals and as the ANC as to how best do we continue the great work and sacrifices of comrade Winnie for the betterment of society as a whole. Mama Winnie played her part during the struggle to liberate the country from colonial oppression, she continued even in her role in government to push for pro-poor policies and legislation. In everything she did, she sought to alleviate the social impact of the apartheid legacy. Through all of this and even during the transition into democracy, the menace of the years found her unafraid. When asked how she felt in a brief interview with the SABC, at her 80th birthday celebrations, she responded by simply saying: “I am not used to such nice things being said about me.” Yet, despite the negative things said about her and done to her, she kept on fighting. Fighting for the liberation of her people and fighting to change people’s lives. Sleep well Mama Winnie. You have made a contribution so profound that there can never be another Mama Winnie Mandela. We salute you mamma. Your light will always shine bright, it can never be diminished. Hamba kahle Mbokodo! Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma