The lawyers for the Gupta family have written a scathing response to the recent actions and utterances by the NPA, the AFU, the Hawks and others regarding the family and their businesses. In the statement, they challenge the Hawks to serve Ajay Gupta with a warrant for his arrest – but despite him being labelled as a fugitive from justice no such warrant has been issued. “Not only have the Gupta companies and the Guptas been attacked by incompetents in the National Prosecuting Authority and the HAWKS, but it is blandly stated by a Minister of State, by Senior Prosecutors and Senior Police Officers that, for example, Mr Ajay Gupta is a fugitive from justice. “The reality is that it is said that a warrant of arrest has been issued for Mr Ajay Gupta. “We, the authorised legal representatives of Mr Ajay Gupta, have called for a copy of the so-called warrant. The HAWKS have declined to provide either a copy thereof or the affidavit on the basis of which it might be said to have been obtained,” the statement issued by BDK Attorneys on behalf of the Gupta family states. In addition, it says the family and its companies have been the subject of public scorn and the media has failed to adequately report on the fact that the Asset Forfeiture Unit lost a case in Bloemfontein simply because it could not understand basic business principles. “This was in the so-called Estina or Vrede Dairy matter. The simple basis for that failure was an inability by the National Prosecuting Authority to read bank statements in a manner which made any commercial sense,” BDK Attorneys said. Similarly it said, the preservation order for the rehabilitation funds Optimum Coal Mining Group would soon be overturned by a court. The statement said that the Gupta brothers, who were not at home at the time of raid on the Gupta premises were abroad on business. The accuse the NPA and the Hawks for failing in their duty to exercise their functions in an objective manner instead are motivated “for political reasons related to recent political developments of this country … to set about a witch hunt of the Guptas”.