CONTROVERSIAL media company Sagarmatha Technologies will not be listing on the JSE tomorrow, after all. In a late announcement on the Stock Exchange News Service (SENS) after the bourse closed yesterday, the company said it had received a letter from the JSE on Tuesday giving notice to the company that the listing could no longer proceed. Among the reasons were that Sagarmatha did not submit its annual financial statements to the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission at the time the pre-listing statement was approved by the JSE. The JSE further said that it was not aware that the financials were not submitted to CIPC. But Sagarmatha said it had received written confirmation from CIPC that it was compliant. “The company notes that the various financial statements were audited and were included in the pre-listing statement and therefore publicly available,” Sagarmatha said. It was disappointed that the JSE said the listing cannot proceed. “Regrettably, therefore, the company cannot continue with the listing (tomorrow),” it said. The company is consulting advisers. The JSE this week confirmed that the Iqbal Surve company had met all listings requirements – but with a large caveat. Because of the precarious financial state of the company it had to raise R3bn from investors by yesterday, according to Andre Visser, a general manager at the JSE. Black business groups have come out in support of Sagarmatha Technologies but other media groups and some political parties are warning that the company has no substance. Sagarmatha in its pre-listing statement said that the anticipated market capitalisation of the company will be approximately R49.7bn, based on 1253 433280 shares in issue at a placement price of R39.62 per share. The JSE granted Sagarmatha Technologies approval for a listing in the media sector on the Main Board of the JSE, with effect from tomorrow. The prerequisite to listing was that Sagarmatha must have a minimum of 20% of the issued shares of the company being held by public shareholders, the company must achieve a minimum subscription on listing of R3bn and the publication of the reviewed provisional financial statements of Sagarmatha Technologies for the year ended December 2017 on the Stock Exchange News Service (SENS) prior to the listing date. Sagarmatha was registered in 2013 as African Technology and Media Holdings Proprietary Limited, launched by Survé, who owns 73% of it and has a majority stake in Independent Media. The Public Investment Corporation (PIC) that manages the pension fund on behalf of the GEPF holds a 25% share in Independent Media. Talks are rife that the PIC will fork out billions to make sure that the listing is a success. Meanwhile BBC Capital, the investment company of the Black Business Council (BBC) has invested in 6 million Sagarmatha shares worth R240m. The BBC said that the nature of these “attacks” on Sagarmatha were anticompetitive and served to promote only an anti-transformative narrative that was designed to keep a significant part of the economy namely, media and e-commerce, in white hands and continue to prohibit the entrance of black people into the mainstream economy. But others called for action against Survé’s company to prevent further plundering of the Government Employee Pension Fund. Anton Alberts, the FF Plus chairperson says that it is becoming increasingly clear that the GEPF is being plundered through numerous suspicious transactions. -Thelma Ngoma