NELSON Mandela Bay mayor Athol Trollip has survived a motion of confidence against him. Chaos broke out as the meeting started and the motion was indefinitely postponed. Council speaker Jonathan Lawack found it difficult to control the gathering that sought to remove Trollip as a punishment to the DA for not supporting its call for land expropriation without compensation. Speaking to the media after the meeting Trollip said the opposition was frustrating the progress made in governance of the city. “We really need to start calling a spade a spade in the politics of South Africa, because those responsible for chaos must respect the responsibility. Those who conduct themselves properly will start gaining respect from people in this country,” he said. He said the DA was ready to debate on all occasions the motion was put before council and that they would not be held to ransom by people who couldn’t respect democratic outcomes. Trollip said sober opposition parties would come on board and allow the coalition government to continue with its work. “The battle is that there are people who lost out democratically, who can’t accept that and want to take it back through the back door,” he said. ACDP reverend Kenneth Meshoe was also present at the council meeting and said people should not be removed from office due to the colour of their skin. “We come from a past where we were moved from homes and communities because of our colour” he said. Nqaba Bhanga the DA provincial leader for the Eastern Cape said the ANC and EFF exposed themselves as nothing but disruptive forces. “These parties disrupted a special council meeting convened to hear several motions of no confidence, which included motions against Trollip, speaker Jonathan Lawack and chief whip Werner Senekal,” he said. He said the EFF and the ANC collapsed the meeting as they knew they did not have the required votes to enact the removal of Trollip. “This highlights the fact that these opposition parties have nothing else to do but break down the council and good governance in the metro,” Bhanga said. –HLONI MASHIGO|hlonim@thenewage.co.za