MAMELODI Sundowns can wrap up the Absa Premiership title when they meet Maritzburg United at Harry Gwala Stadium tonight. A win for the Brazilians and a draw or defeat for second-place Orlando Pirates – who host Bidvest Wits tonight in a match which will be played behind closed doors – will see Pitso Mosimane’s charges clinch the title with two games left. Sundowns lead Pirates by six points with three games remaining and they only need four points in those matches to win a record eighth league title. They meet a Maritzburg side still smarting from their 3-1 defeat in the Nedbank Cup on Sunday at the same venue. They are expected to come out firing to avenge that defeat and take a huge step towards securing the title. Mosimane said they will have to go into this vital fixture without emotions attached from their cup defeat against the Team of Choice. “We have to try to win the game, if we don’t win it, we must get a point,” he said. “If Downs don’t collect all three points tonight, they can still fancy their chances in their last two matches against Ajax Cape Town at home and Bloemfontein Celtic away. “We are good enough to get a point or three in the last few games. This game, however, is very important for us. “We don’t have to be emotional. It is three games remaining and we can get the points so we will try. “We played 10 against 11 in the last match and we still controlled the game. We played and they sat back. We will go for it.” Mosimane will also hope his player, Percy Tau, who has been having an outstanding season, won’t become emotional like he was against Maritzburg on Sunday. “Percy was emotional, he wanted to carry the team himself and I told him to calm down and play his normal game.” Maritzburg on the other side will be motivated by their victory in the cup competition which sent them through to their first cup final. With the top eight already secured, the Team of Choice will go into this match with nothing to lose and without any kind of pressure, while Sundowns will be desperate to avenge their defeat. Maritzburg coach Fadlu Davids warned his players not to become complacent following their victory in the cup game as they look to complete the double against Sundowns in just a few days. Pirates will be desperate to avoid defeat or draw to keep their chances of winning the league alive when they host Wits at Orlando Stadium tonight. Wits are coming from their 1-1 disappointing result against Polokwane City this past weekend and are in danger of missing out on a top eight finish. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za