FORMER Eskom board director Mark Lamberti’s remarks to senior female staffer as mere employment equity tick box should raise our awareness to the difference between being committed to transformation and merely complying with employment equity legislation. Lamberti, who is also the chief executive officer of Imperial Holdings resigned from the board of the country’s power utility after a recent adverse judgment against him by the South Gauteng High Court. Adila Chowan, a black female accountant accused her former employer, Associated Motor Holdings and Lamberti of race and gender discrimination. This after Lamberti reduced Chowan to a “female employment equity” scorecard. The court later found that the remarks made by Lamberti in front of Chowans’ colleagues impaired her dignity. However, Lamberti’s comments are symptomatic of a deeper problem more rarely interrogated in corporate SA. Have corporate executives in this country and by extension the companies they lead embraced the need to have a workforce that reflects the country’s rich diversity in terms of gender and race among others? Furthermore, is the pledge to transformation through the enactment of employment equity and affirmative action legislation more of a begrudged agreement reflective of inner resentment, which could perhaps be explained by the stubborn pace to which transformation takes place? According to the 17th Annual Report of the Commission for Employment Equity, little headway has been made in effecting transformation in the workplace. Findings revealed that top management positions in South African companies were virtually the preserve of white South African males. Within the private sector, white South Africans occupied 72% of top management positions. Among other things, the report revealed that whites occupied 68.5 % of the country’s top management positions across public and private sectors. Africans were lagging behind with 14.4%. Indians constituted 8.9% and coloureds were at the bottom rung with 4.9%. Furthermore, males constituted 78% of top management positions in contrast to females at 22%. At the time of the report’s release, Labour Minister Mildred Oliphant was quoted as having attributed this to “resistance and blatant disregard of the interventions introduced by the ANC led government.” She said dozens of companies, some of which are listed on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange, were on the verge of being slapped with fines in consequence to non-compliance. However, blame should also be apportioned to the ANC government as well. Weak monitoring and evaluation of employment equity and affirmative action policies has made it easy for companies to not only circumvent compliance but also display flagrant disregard for their implementation. Apart from the legislative framework that exerts pressure on companies to comply with policies that seek to effect redress in the workplace, it takes a measure of political consciousness, humility and a bounden duty among white South Africans who benefited from the advantages which are the legacy of apartheid to pledge their commitment to a moral and inclusive economy that bestows to each one the fruits of their own labour. A damning study by the World Bank titled Overcoming Poverty and Inequality in SA recently revealed that SA was the most unequal country in the world and that wealth inequalities remained stubbornly high in the country. Deep structural socio-economic challenges linked to the legacy of apartheid still linger into the present. Apartheid social engineering was such that you are poor because you are black and you are black because you are poor. These are the likely circumstances that a black child will be subjected to before his or her birth. In other words, poverty has a face and it is young, black and female. This means that the social currency of white skin in SA, carrying with it the historical baggage of apartheid practically renders it immune to the harsh realities that have been weaved into the fabric of everyday life for the black majority. What does this mean for blacks in South Africa? It means that human dignity comes at a price. Access to public goods such as healthcare, education, water and sanitation are a function of one’s economic status more than it is a constitutional imperative. What is needed now more than ever is a plan to work out the SA of tomorrow to define the kind of economy we want and to identify the principles that will affirm its values. Bonolo Selebano is a journalist and commentator