TWO of the 16 awaiting trial prisoners who escaped from Sun City prison, also known as the Johannesburg Correctional Centre, were shot dead by KwaZulu-Natal police on Tuesday night. Spokesperson for the Hawks in KZN, Simphiwe Mhlongo, said the escapees shot at the police and the police returned fire in self defence, killing both of them. “Members of the Hawks from the Durban organised crime unit received information and conducted an operation assisted by the Durban K9 unit and the provincial tracing team,” Mhlongo said. “They spotted the escapees along the R33 near Greytown, where they tried to stop them. A 19mm pistol with ammunition and a toy gun were found in their possession.” Mhlongo said although the two were found in KZN, it could not be assumed that all of them fled to KZN. “The only information that was in our disposal was about the two suspects,” Mhlongo said. Meanwhile, the DA wants the acting national Justice and Correctional Services commissioner to urgently brief the ommittee on what steps the department is taking to tighten security in prisons. The party said it would write to the chairperson of the justice portfolio committee, Mathole Motshekga, to request that he summon the acting national justice and Correctional Services Commissioner, Mandla Mkabela. DA shadow deputy minister of justice and constitutional development, James Selfe, noted that the incident occurred less than a month after six inmates broke out of Pollsmoor Prison in the Western Cape. “These escapes are concerning and have exposed weaknesses in the country’s prison system,” he said. Selfe said the Minister of Justice and Correctional Services, Michael Masutha, must also account for why there had not been a permanent appointment made in the position of national justice and Correctional Services Commissioner since Zach Modise retired in mid-2017. “Parliament is empowered to intervene when national departments are failing to carry out their mandated duties and there appears to be a trend of prison escapes which needs to be addressed immediately. It is vital that we get answers about the recent prison escapes and ensure greater security at the country’s correctional institutions,” he said. shonisanit@thenewage.co.za -SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE