COUNTRIES with a high demand for rhino horn appear to be hampering efforts to clamp down on poaching by reportedly refusing to cooperate to root out the scourge. “The majority of rhino poachers are from Mozambique, rough estimates show that they are between 85% and 90% and only 1% are South Africans,” Mpumalanga specialist prosecutor Ansie Venter said. “The Hawks are investigating special cases involving syndicates. Unfortunately SA does not have a treaty with Mozambique, we can’t do anything about the crime bosses in that country,” Venter said. “Our government and Mozambique are starting talks about an extradition treaty which will make life a lot easier for us, then we will be able the rhino poaching kingpins. “However when it comes to the kingpins in China and Vietnam, unfortunately we have to rely on their governments who are not always cooperative,” she said. She said the courts in Mpumalanga were issuing stiff jail sentences of between 15 and 30 years and two months ago a poacher was jailed for 37 years. “We have a 100% conviction rate, but that is not our glory, but of the team consisting of rangers, police, NPA, presiding officers, lawyers and interpreters. Our success in Mpumalanga has been used as an example in parliamentary committee discussions on sentences for rhino poachers,” Venter said. Her revelations come amid news of the arrest of at least 10 alleged rhino poachers in the Kruger National Park on Monday. “While the death of two alleged poachers is regrettable, the arrest of 10 of their accomplices in this multi-agency driven operation is to be commended. This success is an indication of the determination of the rangers and investigators on the ground to halt rhino poaching,” Environmental Affairs Minister Dr Edna Molewa said. The arrest of the alleged poachers, including a South African police officer as well as a former army general of a neighbouring country, followed a gun battle between rangers, police and the suspects. Two alleged accomplices were shot dead during the shoot-out. Four fresh rhino horns and five heavy calibre weapons were seized. “This is a prime example of the successful collaboration between the security forces and SanParks in combating rhino crimes,” Dr Molewa said. ntombin@thenewage.co.za -NTOMBI NKOSI