Zola Ndwandwe on Tuesday apologised for hate speech comments made over the passing of struggle veteran Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. Madikizela-Mandela passed away on Monday following a long illness. In reaction to the news of Madikizela’s passingon Monday, the woman, purporting to be an ambassador for EY Africa and a DA activist posted this tweet: @EY_Africa this vile @ZolaNdwandwe person claims to be your ambassador. Please deal with her before we boycott Ernst & Young for associating itself with such creatures!#RIPWinnieMandela #WinnieMandela pic.twitter.com/nq1EpNFyls — Uhuru (@TowardsUhuru) April 2, 2018 She later apologised, posting this tweet: You call this an apology?! If I weren’t this angry I’d laugh! pic.twitter.com/tgaUB5MBLn — Ndu SonOfSoil Mzobe (@NduhAfricanSon) April 3, 2018 The tweets, which have since been deleted from her account, have been retweeted by angry South Africans with equally disgruntled responses to her utterances. Ndwandwe said she made the “regrettable” references to Madikizela-Mandela after watching a video on the passing of Stompie Moeketsi which painted a “different” picture of Mama Winnie. Stompie Moeketsi (or Stompie Sepei) was a child activist and member of the infamous Mandela Football Club established by Madikizela-Mandela as a front for the political mobilisation of township youths to stand against apartheid. According to information on a South African history online website, the struggle hero was initially linked to the death of the teenager after Jerry Richardson alleged she initiated his torture. She however denied any involvement in his death. In fact, Madikizela-Mandela’s name was cleared in 1990 when the then Rand Supreme Court sentenced Jerry Richardson to death for Stompie’s murder. “I then questioned as to why Mama Winnie would do such a thing, a gracious honourable woman, would Mama Winnie really be behind Stompie’s murder? How? My impulse was based on misdirected anger and the propaganda had me viewing Mama Winnie as ‘satanic,” she said. Ndwandwe said she now feared for her job at EY Africa and the DA and haD thus far distanced the two organisations from her comments. This may also be my last day as part of the Democratic Alliance Team @Our_DA , I fully accept and take on the responsibility. My sincere apologies. — Zola Ndwandwe (@ZolaNdwandwe) April 3, 2018 Meanwhile, a series of social media users have posted negatively-worded tweets over Madikizela’s passing. “ding dong the witch is dead!”… the evil marxist winnie mandela, notorious for her personal involvement in the kidnap, murder & torture of many fellow south africans including 14 year old stompie moeketsie whose throat she slit while sitting in her jacuzzi… rot in hell bitch. pic.twitter.com/pzSa4rfg9q — Mythos (@mythosXMakina) April 3, 2018 Ding dong the witch is dead…the witch…is dead…the witch is dead! #StompieSeipei is rejoicing! #Winnie_Madikizela_Mandela — Allergic2Libturd (@Dkc30247580) April 3, 2018 Captioned a picture with Ma Winnie with “ding dong the witch is dead” pic.twitter.com/VM4Ty0rjNp —  (@hlonelwa_mbina) April 2, 2018 A few hours before Winnie Mandela died, I was interviewed by @StefanMolyneux. We spoke about how she & other ANC leaders encouraged the use of the necklace as a method of murdering their fellow black people. I named them. to be published soon… …backlash might follow. — Ernst Roets (@ErnstRoets) April 2, 2018 Wits Vice Chancellor Adam Habib on Monday asked those who are not mourning Mama Winnie’s death to remain silent on the matter to allow their fellow South Africans to grieve in peace. I have a request for all. Today is a moment of grief for many. Can we do so with dignity? Those who have nothing positive to say,be silent. Those who want to honour Winnie, do so. No one should respond to racism with further racism. We fight tomorrow. Today we mourn with dignity. — Adam Habib (@AdHabb) April 2, 2018 -TNA Reporter