Former USA President Barack Obama is expected to deliver the annual Nelson Mandela Memorial lecture for 2018. The announcement was made by the Nelson Mandela Foundation and the Obama Foundation in a joint statement on Monday. The lecture, which is in its 16th year, coincides with Mandela’s centenary celebrations under the theme “Renewing the Mandela Legacy and Promoting Active Citizenship in a Changing World”. The event will be held at the Ellis Park Arena in Johannesburg on 17 July 2018, a day before Nelson Mandela International Day, and Madiba’s birthday. According to the Nelson Mandela Foundation, this year’s lecture will focus on how to create conditions for bridging the divide, working across ideological lines, and resisting oppression and inequality. Foundation spokesperson Lunga Nene said Madiba’s presidency was characterised by his efforts to solidify the fragile democracy of South Africa, and by his lessons on the politics of bridge-building’ over the politics of division. “The Nelson Mandela Annual Lecture is a unique platform to drive debate on critical social issues in South Africa and around the world, ” Nene said. Amongst some of the world leaders who have previously addressed the lecture include Former USA President Bill Clinton, Former South African President Thabo Mbeki, Former Liberian President Ellen Johnson Sirleaf, Former Ireland President Mary Robinson and Former Chilean President Michelle Bachelet. United Nations(UN) Deputy Secretary-General Amina Mohammed, Former UN Secretary-General and Nobel Laureates Kofi Annan, Kenyan Environmental activist and former Nobel Laureate Wangari Maathai, Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu, Bangladeshi Civil Society leader and social entrepreneur Muhammad Yunus, Professors Ariel Dorfman,  French economist Thomas Piketty, Trustees of the Library of Alexandria Ismail Serageldin, philanthropists billionaire Bill Gates and Sudanese-British billionaire businessman Mo Ibrahim. According to the foundation, more than 4000 people are expected to attend the lecture. -TNA Reporter