IN THE wake of being excluded from the programme of Winnie MadikizelaMandela’s state funeral, the ANC Youth League (ANCYL) has called for a meeting with its mother body over increasing isolation from party events. Madikizela-Mandela’s funeral service at the weekend was the straw that broke the camel’s back for the league as there was a conspicuous absence of ANCYL leaders serving in the league national executive committee (NEC), who would have spoken on behalf of the youth. Instead, former ANCYL president and ANC head of elections Fikile Mbalula was the preferred designated speaker. It is for this that ANCYL deputy president Desmond Moela said following a meeting of the league’s top leadership last Friday at Luthuli House, the league would call for a meeting with the ANC to discuss what it feared was a trend of being sidelined from party events. “In all platforms of the ANC, the youth league and the women’s league are no longer being given platforms to speak. Even at the January 8 statement, we are no longer being given platforms. “The ANC must start recognising that there is an ANCYL that is recognised by the party’s constitution. We are going to engage the ANC until we reach consensus,” Moela said. His comments come against the background of political ructions over deepseated wounds of Mandela’s relationship with the ANC having played themselves out at the funeral. Former ANCYL president Julius Malema lambasted past ANC leaders for having distanced themselves from Madikizela-Mandela. Regarding ANC Women’s League (ANCWL) president Bathabile Dlamini being afforded an opportunity to speak at the funeral, Moela said he believed the concession was made only by virtue of Madikizela-Mandela having been a former women’s league president. “Winnie was a former women’s league president. If it was not the case, then the women’s league itself would not have been given an opportunity to speak,” he said. An internal rift between ANCYL president Collen Maine and deputy secretary Thandi Moraka has taken root in the league’s top brass. Moela said that while Friday’s meeting was used to douse the fire, Maine would not be resigning in the face of Moraka’s call for him to step down. “We sat in the meeting and said that she raised it in the wrong platform. If we have issues, the right platform is the NEC of the youth league. “Maine will not be stepping down until the national congress of the youth league. We are all entitled to raise matters, but we are in a building process. We are calling on all members of the league to use the correct platforms of the organisation,” Moela said. As the term of office of the ANCYL NEC winds down, the league has brought forward the date for its elective conference to June. Treasurer-general Reggie Nkabinde and KwaZulu-Natal provincial secretary Thandoxulo Sabelo are in the running to succeed Maine. “In the last NEC meeting we resolved to go for an early congress in June,” Moela said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO