“WE GREW up hearing the name of Mama Winnie and you could hear the love and respect in my father’s words when he talked about her.” These words formed part of a moving tribute to the late Winnie MadikizelaMandela by the daughter of Chris Hani, Lindiwe. Lindiwe was speaking at the Thomas Nkobi Memorial Park in Ekurhuleni as South Africa yesterday honoured two of its most loved struggle heroes, Madikizela-Mandela and Hani at separate memorial services. Yesterday marked the 25th anniversary of the assassination of ANC and SACP leader Hani. “My father loved Mama Winnie and she loved him as well. We stayed with Mama Winnie and her family in Soweto,” Lindiwe said. Lindiwe also criticised the reconciliation process in the country. “I am yet to recollect the apartheid government as a whole apologising for those atrocities. I find it is difficult to forgive something that even the perpetrators have not acknowledged.” Alliance leaders said that Hani like Madikizela-Mandela had once been isolated within the ANC but both had remained loyal to their organisation. Cosatu general secretary Bheki Ntshalintshali said the likes of Hani, Mandela and OR Tambo at times vehemently disagreed with the views of the ANC but nevertheless displayed exemplary loyalty by remaining in the party. “If your organisation has not wronged you at some stage, it means that you have not been there long enough in that organisation. You can ask Chris Hani and he will tell you about the challenges he faced within his organisation. “Comrade Winnie must have gone through it. What is common about these comrades is that they never turned their backs on the ANC,” Ntshalintshali said. SACP national spokesperson, Alex Mashilo, spoke of how Hani as the chief of staff of Umkhonto we Sizwe, had to abandon his personal views about the ANC’s suspension of armed action. “He obviously did not agree with the decision. He set his personal views aside and he went ahead to implement the decision. That was not easy because in the ranks of the MK, there were those like him who did not agree with the decision and they were looking forward to his leadership to challenge the decision,” Mashilo said. Meanwhile, President Cyril Ramaphosa was among those who paid homage to Madikizela-Mandela at a memorial service in Bizana where the fiery struggle heroine was born. Ramaphosa visited the MadikizelaMandela homestead in Mbongweni village to comfort the family before going to the memorial service. “I am happy to meet the big family of Madikizela. Winnie Madikizela-Mandela believed that freedom would have to be fought for and achieved and indeed she fought. She truly hated the demon of corruption, state corruption and state capture. She will have a special place in our hearts because of her strength and courage,” Ramaphosa said. Ramaphosa also paid tribute to Hani, Solomon Mahlangu and the late ANC president OR Tambo who he said had all “fought for the democracy we have today”. “She was always on the side of the youth and this is the relationship that earned her the title of Mother of the Nation. She never betrayed the struggle because of fear of pain, hardship and punishment by the apartheid government,” Ramaphosa said. Bishop Mongameli Noqayi of the Methodist Church, said: “We will continue to honour Winnie MadikizelaMandela’s legacy by strengthening and uniting the ANC. “She loved people. Winnie loved her neighbour as commanded by God. I know Winnie Madikizela-Mandela loved being in the house of the Lord, she was present at the our annual Easter church service.” Madikizela-Mandela’s nephew Thembelani Madikizela spoke on behalf of the family. “My aunt taught us to be courageous and fearless. She said we must be the agents of change that we want,” he said. Meanwhile, the presidents of Namibia and the DRC Hage Geingob and Denis Sassou Nguesso, the chairperson of the AU Commission Moussa Faki and the Southern African Development Community secretary Stergomena Lawrence Tax were among those expected to attend Madikizela-Mandela’s funeral on Saturday, Minister in the Presidency, Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma said. American Baptist minister Jesse Jackson is also among the prominent guests expected to attend the ceremony where Ramaphosa will deliver the eulogy. The funeral service will start at Madikizela-Mandela’s home in Soweto at 6am before moving to the Orlando Stadium at 9am. To address overflows various venues will have big screen televisions for mourners to follow proceedings. -BONOLO SELEBANO, SISANDA MADSWANTI AND LILLIAN SELAPISA|news@thenewage.co.za