AT FACE value, Bafana Bafana failing to get reputable opponents other than their participation in the Cosafa Cup, especially with Argentina turning them down, might look unfortunate. It also may even give credence to the reason Safa gave that Argentina decided not to play against Bafana because of the defeat the South Americans recently suffered against Spain. On the other hand, Bafana’s failure to qualify for the 2018 Fifa World Cup in Russia in June and the fact that they have in the past struggled to make it to the Africa Cup of Nations may also be playing a role. Such a failure to attract good opponents will make things hard for Bafana when they head to their 2019 Africa Cup of Nations qualifier against Libya, with the Cosafa Cup that will be held in Polokwane the only tournament to prepare. Coach Stuart Baxter is still crossing fingers at the possibility of taking Bafana to India, where a tournament is likely to take place. The problem with Cosafa is that Baxter will not get the quality players he wants as teams have in the past given the tournament that is not on the Fifa date a cold shoulder and Baxter himself has said that he would like to use the tournament to look at players who could play for the U-23 Olympics team. “We had the ambition of having three squads on the road. We had the Cosafa, which was very much going to be using players that can go forward and maybe play in the Olympics. We were having the base of the squad that played in the Four Nations going to a tournament in India,” Baxter said. “We had one off games against Argentina that was very close to fruition that has been pulled because Argentina has a disappointing result against Spain and chosen not to play one more game. The India tournament is in the balance. If the India tour is on, then I will take part in that. But at the moment, I will concentrate on Cosafa because that is the one we got. “We will look for a one off game for the more senior player but it is a difficult challenge at the moment.” Unsure of whether he will coach the team in the 14 team Cosafa Cup tournament that will take place between May 27 and June 9 in Polokwane, Baxter said he will look at calling in players like Phakamani Mahlambi and Teboho Mokoena to have a better look at them. “This tournament is a challenge and it has been more challenging in previous years because we haven’t really had a clear position on what we are looking for out of the tournament. “So many times we have stumbled into the tournament with an understrength team investing time into players who will probably not represent Bafana again. “Now the strategy should be clear that we will pick a strong team as we can, at the same time, invest international playing time to younger players that we feel will go on and play in the Olympics, or maybe play in Bafana. Therefore we have a clear picture of what we want now.” Bafana last won the tournament in 2016. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za