The Progressive Professionals Forum(PPF) has welcomed the nomination of Morris Masutha and Senamile Masango onto its National Executive Committee. Masutha has been nominated to be the head of Research and Innovation while Masango has been nominated to be an ordinary national executive committee(NEC) member. The PPF says the two are professionals who are voluntarily sharing their knowledge, skills and expertise with Government and country as well as striving to build a better South Africa for all without any intention for gain. PPF spokesperson Phapano Phasha says the organisation is grateful and delighted that both Masutha and Masango, who are distinct and highly educated young professionals will be sharing their scarce and needed expertise with the organisation. Phasha says the organisation is delighted to be welcoming the two to the forum. “These two young and highly skilled South Africans are an embodiment of black excellence and we are positive they will add even more value as we take PPF to next trajectory,” Phasha said. Masutha who is the Executive Director and Senior Researcher at the Centre for Emerging Researcher is known for advocating for the provision of free tertiary education and some credit him for being the brains behind President Jacob Zuma’s announcement of the provision of free tertiary education. Zuma announced that from 2018 academic year, free tertiary education would be provided to poor students. Masutha, however, says he was not the one behind Zuma’s announcement. He holds a BA in Economic Geography, a BSc Honours in Food Security and Environmental Studies from the Wits University, a Masters of Science in Local Economic Development and
SMMEs from the University of Johannesburg and is currently completing his PhD in Higher Education Management at the University of Bath’s International Centre for Higher Education Management. Masango, on the other hand, is a founder and Chairperson of Women in Science (Wise Africa), a non-governmental institution registered with the Department of Social Development, which is providing leadership and role models for young people wishing to enter the fields of Science and Technology. She holds a BSc in Physics and Electronics from the University of Zululand as well as an Honours BSc in Physics major from the University of Zululand. Masango is currently studying for an MSc in Nuclear Physics at the University of the Western Cape. She made history when she was honoured as a First African woman to be part of a first African-led experiment at European Organization for Nuclear Research (CERN). -TNA Reporter