OUTSPOKEN ANC Women’s League president Bathabile Dlamini yesterday in an exclusive interview with The New Age warned the party’s new national executive committee (NEC) that any fresh attempts to remove President Jacob Zuma from office would split the ruling party. Dlamini insisted that if the party’s leadership was genuine about tightening the noose on disciplinary infractions by party members on social media, then NEC member Derek Hanekom – who was warned last year by former secretary-general Gwede Mantashe over divisive tweets about Zuma before his August 8 no confidence vote – should be reined in by the party for tweets this week in which he agitated for Zuma’s removal once again. “We have the experience of asking a president (former president Thabo Mbeki) to resign before time. It nearly divided the ANC. In all conferences, starting from Polokwane to Mangaung, those who did not win left the conference. After Polokwane there was an organisation formed (Cope) and after that there was another (EFF).” With a week before the NEC holds its inaugural meeting for this year, Dlamini’s comments come amid rife media speculation that supporters of ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa were poised to call for Zuma’s removal as head of state. Regarding Hanekom’s tweets saying that he “hoped” sanity would prevail so that a motion of no confidence could be raised against Zuma before the party’s NEC meeting, Dlamini said action should be taken. “The NEC took a decision long ago and we are now going to see our leadership act. I expect my leadership to act and discipline comrades. “The decision of the women’s league is that President Jacob Zuma must remain as president up until the end of his term. I still stand by that.” Dlamini also shared her reflections on Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma’s marginal loss to Ramaphosa for the party’s presidency at the ANC’s elective conference at Nasrec. She said that ANC deputy president David Mabuza, who outfoxed his allies to gain the position, played a crucial role in the outcome of the election. “Yes, in a way he did. Yes, we want unity, (Mabuza stood on a unity ticket) but not at the expense of women. We all want unity. Unity has always been the bedrock of the ANC, but what we have done now, we have taken the ANC back,” Dlamini said. “And the fact that the NEC did not have a committee on the emancipation of women for a long time actually led to this thing (women being left out). “It’s sad that there will be those who will not stand for the truth because of (their desired) positions. “Positions will always be there and people come and go in the organisation but the values of the ANC must always be there, even if we are fighting.” Asked if she had any regrets, in light of her preferred candidate for the ANC presidency losing out, she said that she would do it all over again as Dlamini Zuma was a tried and tested member of the ANC. “In the middle of the campaign I asked myself, ‘are we on the right path’ and I said we were. The second question was, ‘what happened if you lose the position?’ “My response was that the ANC taught me that if you stand for election, you must be willing to accept defeat and subject yourself to the elected leadership. “But subjecting yourself to the elected leadership also demands that the elected leadership accepts you. Because you’ve won the conference, why should people be vicious if you have won? You need to embrace everyone.” -BONOLO SELEBANO AND SIFISO MAHLANGU|bonolos@thenewage.co.za