Revenge has rarely been more satisfying for Orlando Pirates than the 3-1 defeat they inflicted on South African Premiership leaders Mamelodi Sundowns in Pretoria Saturday. Sundowns won the corresponding fixture last season by six goals — one of the darkest days in the 80-year history of the Soweto-based ‘Buccaneers’. Watching Pirates being humiliated a year ago became so unbearable for some supporters that they ripped out television cables at the stadium and created serious crowd disturbances. Those were distant memories as Pirates also avenged a 3-1 home loss to Sundowns this season after snatching the lead just 105 seconds into the first half at Loftus Versfeld stadium. In a clash of former African champions, Sundowns had more possession, shots on target and corners, but clinical Pirates proved far superior when it came to finishing. After Ntsikelelo Nyauza stunned Sundowns with his second-minute opener, Mpho Makola doubled the lead before Percy Tau halved the deficit with half-time approaching. Luvuyo Memela squandered several scoring chances before putting the outcome beyond doubt with a rasping shot seven minutes from time. Pirates lured Serb Milutin Sredojevic from his job as Uganda coach after a disastrous 2016-2017 season, and this was the finest performance of the campaign for the east European. It was the third loss in four outings for Sundowns, who this week appointed former Sweden manager Erik Hamren as technical director. While Sundowns stayed top of the table on 31 points with 13 rounds remaining, Pirates lie fifth, five points behind. Free State Stars from the central town of Bethlehem rose above Cape Town City to second after beating them 1-0 through a goal from Congo Brazzaville newcomer Harris Tchilimbou. The latest little-known signing by Belgian coach Luc Eymael stooped to nod a cross past City goalkeeper Sage Stephens during first-half stoppage time. Star-less Free State, who have never come close to winning the league, have 28 points, Cape Town 27 and Kaizer Chiefs and Pirates 26. Chiefs clawed back to edge Polokwane City 2-1 at Soccer City stadium in Soweto with the goal that gave the visitors a first-half lead a candidate for best of the season. Zimbabwean Walter Musona rifled a long-range free-kick over a defensive wall, past goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune and into the roof of the net on 22 minutes. Ryan Moon nodded an equaliser soon after and substitute Dumisani Zuma won the match by sidefooting a cross past Zimbabwean goalkeeper George Chigova during the second half. -AFP