THE excitement of welcoming signings may suit Mamelodi Sundowns fans, but for Pitso Mosimane the new additions come with a whole new headache. With everyone expecting players such as Jeremy Brockie, Aubrey Ngoma, Siyabonga Zulu and Gaston Sirino to be the new brooms that will sweep all before them, players at Sundowns will be looking at how the coach handles the transfer period. The fact that Sundowns are top of the PSL standings means there are players who have done well to put the side in such a positive light. In encouraging healthy competition from those players who are set to join and also backing present players such as Percy Tau, Themba Zwane, Sibusiso Vilakazi, Thokozani Sekotlong and Anthony Laffor, Mosimane said he must still respect the guys that have been around for a while. This will also deal with issues among those fans that believe that Oupa Manyisa, Sibusiso Vilakazi and George Lebese were consistently given more opportunities than others – even after they fired blanks after they had joined the club. “We have enough players here for the league, even though I cannot say we are yet done. “Who we have put us on top of the log. We cannot complain. I give respect to the guys that got us to the top. “I will give them more opportunities for what they have done for the club, putting the team where it is now. “I don’t want them to feel like I am suddenly dumping them because there is somebody new,” Mosimane said. “Such changes can harm a team. “The new ones will need time to adjust and we must give them that. We don’t have large numbers and we will must first blood the new players in. “It is very difficult for me as a coach. The team has not been doing that badly. Sirino has not played for a long time. Brockie is okay. Aubrey has not played in a while and Zulu is ready.” The fears that Brockie, Ngoma and Sirino may jump straight into the starting team may well have come from Mosimane himself – who said the trio are coming in as direct replacements for the “CBD” combination of Leonardo Castro, now gone, the want-away Khama Billiat and France-based Keagan Dolly. “The CBD is almost gone and these players are here as replacements. Sirino is like a Khama. He is fast and he can score. We all know Brockie. He has scored 54 goals for SuperSport United and he is a replacement for Castro. “We have to start building new combinations. But the main reason we have these guys here is because we want to do well in the CAF Champions League.” Meanwhile, the Sundowns coach announced that Fares Hachi has left the club to join Chippa United on loan, while Yannick Zakri has joined Ajax Cape Town on a loan deal. • Sundowns are to face Platinum Stars in a PSL match at Loftus Versfeld Stadium on Saturday. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za