THE new head of the ANC party machinery, recently elected secretary-general Ace Magashule, has claimed that there appears to be a renewed campaign to poison certain leaders of the party. The poison plot, which is not a new issue for the ANC top six, has received Magashule’s attention. Magashule said he was taking precautions against being poisoned. He also urged others to be careful about what they were eating. Magashule made these claims yesterday while commenting on the death of Sandile Msibi, the former head of Free State’s police, roads and transport department, and a politician whom he has described as “a true revolutionary”. According to reports, Magashule told mourners at Msibi’s funeral last week that he and North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo had gone to President Jacob Zuma to ask him to help with arrangements for Msibi to be treated in Russia for poisoning. Magashule told mourners: “We said, ‘President, we have a friend; this man has been poisoned. Can we please take him to Russia? There are others who have gone to Russia and come back alive.” However, Msibi was laid to rest last Thursday, a day after he was scheduled to have been flown to Russia, where President Zuma had also received treatment after being poisoned, for medical care. Magashule informed mourners: “It’s quite unfortunate because Wednesday was the date decided on with the president for him to be flown to Russia. But if we had taken him to Russia, he would still be alive today.” Magashule praised Msibi to funeral-goers as a man who was loved and hated for championing radical economic transformation. “He was brave to stand against white supremacy and purged most of the white staff from the old administration who had overstayed their welcome. He diverted tenders away from white-owned firms to benefit blacks and fired workers he deemed lazy or entitled.” At the funeral, Magashule also blamed white monopoly capital for hunting down Msibi and his associates. “They may boast that he is dead but who among us here will not die eventually? Those most at risk were those fighting monopoly capital. “We are in danger of being murdered. Once you touch the nerve of white monopoly capital, you will never survive,” Magashule said. Magashule, who is still premier of the Free State, added: “Even with Msibi gone, we are still in charge.” Yesterday, Magashule declined to comment further. “We expect the police to investigate the matter further. For now, it’s better not to make any statement,” he said. Asked about previous attempts to poison President Zuma and the ANC’s new deputy president, David Mabuza, Magashule said: “There is a campaign to poison some of our members. We’re taking serious precautions.” It was an “open secret”, he said, that Mabuza was poisoned. According to reports yesterday, Mabuza was poisoned three years ago. He was treated in Moscow. “We can confirm that the premier travelled to Moscow to seek medical treatment for poisoning. The premier was gravely ill. Last January, while disclosing information about the poisoning, Mabuza said he was given poisoned food during his birthday celebrations in Bushbuckridge in 2015. He said then: “There were snacks on the table. I had tea and later had lunch. After eating, my energy levels were down. My body was extra hot. Since that day my health deteriorated until I was admitted to Nelspruit Mediclinic.” DENNIS CRUYWAGEN dennisc@thenewage.co.za