DEPUTY Minister of Higher Education and Training Buti Manamela has urged Unisa and the National Education Health and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) to consider the interests of both students and staff to resolve their differences so that student registrations, which have been disrupted, could go ahead. Manamela visited the Unisa Pretoria campus yesterday as part of his ongoing consultation and engagement with stakeholders on its state of readiness ahead of the 2018 academic year. Workers have been protesting after wage negotiations deadlocked between the university and Nehawu. Manamela held talks with the university management led by vice-chancellor and principal Prof Mandla Makhanya and representatives of Nehawu, and first deputy president Mike Shingana. Manamela said there was significant progress in finding a sustainable solution to the strike, saying both parties had demonstrated a great deal of restraint and maturity and were moving even closer to a settlement. He, however, was concerned about the adverse impact the ongoing dispute could have on registration and preparations for the 2018 academic year particularly in the context of the implementation of fully subsidised bursary funding for the poor and working class. “Any further delays to end the deadlock could have a devastating impact on academic preparations and urged both parties to put their differences aside in the interest of university workers and students,” Manamela said. Both parties welcomed the department’s initiative to inject a sense of vigour into the negotiation process and desire to break the deadlock, noting that Nehawu further expressed the wish to move swiftly in ending the dispute and pave a way for a conducive environment for teaching and learning when the new academic year starts next week. “To this end the union supports peaceful demonstrations without any hindrance to the registration process. “The university also undertook to put extraordinary measures in place to assist affected prospective students who may have lost valuable registration time during the week-long strike including setting up self-help desks,” the department said. Last week, the union handed a memorandum to the university management announcing that it would be embarking on a strike and detailing several of its demands to management. Among the demands, Nehawu said it wanted all council members to stop doing business with the university with immediate effect as this shows how little it cares about workers. Nehawu spokesperson Khaya Xaba said the ball was in the employer’s court. Xaba said that workers had rejected the last revised offer of 7% because the workers wanted 10%. “The employer has to increase their offer so that workers can go back to work. The strike will continue and registrations won’t take place,” Xaba said. Attempts to reach Unisa spokesperson Martin Ramotshela were unsuccessful. keitumetsim@thenewage.co.za -KEITUMETSI MOTLHALE