KAIZER Chiefs midfielder Joseph Molangoane is satisfied with the contribution he is making at the club and feels that they are in a good space to win the league title. Molangoane has impressed in the right back position for Amakhosi, producing some man of the match performances. He has given coach Steve Komphela some headaches in the right back position since he was converted from midfield following the injury to Ramahlwe Mphahlele who has now returned. “We have targets to meet. There’s nothing much that I have changed in my approach. I have accepted a new role in the team and I’m seizing the moment,” Molangoane said. “I am glad to be able to reproduce in the game what we practice during the week. It all starts at training. We plan for the game and play according to the coach’s instructions.” With competition now promising to be tough at Chiefs following the arrival of new signings, Molangoane is aware there is no time to relax. He created the winning goal for Chiefs in their 2-1 win over Polokwane City at the weekend which was converted by Dumisani Zuma. “We just love it when the plan comes together. I was in a good space, I played a one-two pass with Siphelele Ntshangase and crossed to find Zuma who scored. “I am glad we won the match and remain in the hunt to win the league.” Molangoane said they need to continue working hard if they are to stay in the hunt for the league title and that they will need to take their second half performance from their 2-1 victory over Polokwane City forward. “City came prepared and on a high from a win in their previous match. They scored a beauty from a set play but that didn’t deter us from focusing on winning the game. “You could see they wanted to win despite playing away. They were not conservative, they played with purpose and we had to put in an extra effort to overcome them. I am glad to contribute to the bigger picture. It is a work in progress for me and the team and we are looking forward to the next game.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za