The Progressive Professional Forum (PPF) has joined many in welcoming a decision by President Jacob Zuma to establish a comprehensive commission of inquiry to look into allegations of state capture. The PPF said the matter of capture by certain white monopoly capital families, businesses and associations had been raised before, during and after the former public protector’s investigation. It said it was, therefore, the president’s constitutional duty to broaden the scope of the commission. Zuma announced on Tuesday that he would be appointing Deputy Chief Justice Raymond Zondo to head up an inquiry into allegations of state capture, as directed by Thuli Madonsela. Madonsela directed Zuma to appoint a judge, handpicked by Chief Justice Mogoeng Mogoeng, to head a commission of inquiry to look into allegations of state capture she raised in her report titled, State of Capture. The PPF said the capturing of the state by anyone was an indictment on South Africa’s young democracy and undermined the struggle of the people of South Africa against poverty, unemployment, inequality, homelessness and landlessness. It said it was for that reason that the ANC-led government must be applauded for the decision to appoint the commission. PPF spokesperson Phapano Phasha said Zuma’s appointment of the commission “clearly demonstrates” his commitment to comply, not only with the public protector’s recommendations, as constitutionally required to do so, but also a commitment to implement specific ANC resolutions to deal decisively with corruption. “It is further pleasing from the announcement that the inquiry will be as comprehensive and broad as possible to ensure that the evident malicious conduct of ‘capture’ is dealt with in all its manifestations without fear or favour and all the perpetrators brought to book,” Phasha said.   Phasha said Zondo is an astute, well-trained and respected jurist who enjoys a lot of respect within the legal fraternity and among legal scholars both locally and internationally. She said the PPF was confident that with Zondo at the helm, the inquiry would expose substantive and comprehensive capture, most of which had been hidden for years. -TNA Reporter