What is becoming a trend for Cape Town City, to sign players from Europe rather than domestically, has continued after Helsingborg IF winger Surprise Ralani signed for the Benni McCarthy-coached side. The move, which looks like a direct replacement for Aubrey Ngoma, comes after City went overseas to sign Ayanda Patosi and former West Ham United striker Victor Obinna. “Cape Town City are delighted to confirm the signing of South African-born winger and playmaker, Surprise Ralani from Swedish club Helsingborgs IF,” City said in a statement. Ralani becomes the third January signing for City after they managed to land centre-back Kwanda Mngonyama and Kenyan striker Masoud Juma. The 30-year-old winger from Kimberley has never played in the PSL, having spend most of his career playing for teams in Denmark and Sweden. He has only played for the Stars of Africa Academy in South Africa, back in 2009. City will be encouraged by the fact that Ralani is a scoring winger, having bagged six goals and four assists in 27 appearances for Helsingborg IF in the Swedish second flight last season. While the Cape Town side is busy in the transfer market, the club is also losing key players, something that threatens its progress given that the team is barely two years old. City lost former captain and PSL player of the year Lebogang Manyama at the beginning of the season. Matt Sim left the club and at the moment the team is preparing to lose robust captain Robyn Johannes, who has signed a pre-contract with Bidvest Wits that will see him switch to Braamfontein in July. Ngoma is another of the players who was always going to be lost to the club, with Mamelodi Sundowns having already signed him, with Lehlohonolo Majoro and Bhongolwethu Jayiya the other two experienced players that City have since lost. Mngonyama comes in as a long-term replacement for Johannes, while Majoro, who signed for Bidvest Wits recently, will be replaced by the highly rated Kenyan Juma. Cape Town City will be back to PSL action on Saturday against Platinum Stars at the Royal Bafokeng Stadium, kick-off is at 8.15pm. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za