As tense and anxious matriculants await to receive their final results tomorrow, The Department of Social Development has opened its support centre to help learners deal with the strain. Every year reports of depression and suicide tend to coincide with the release of matric results. Some students who may not have performed well or met their own expectations or those of their parents end up in a dark place feeling as though they have no options. Minister of Social Development, Bathabile Dlamini has on Thursday opened the Department’s Gender-Based Violence Command Centre (GBVCC) in anticipation of the emotionally charged day. “The Minister also appeals to parents to look out for any signs of depression expressed by their children so that interventions can be sought early to help the youngsters deal with the outcome of their examinations,” said the department in a statement. Last year a Grade 11 pupil from Strauss Secondary School in Ekangala committed suicide after receiving his year-end report card last Wednesday. The incident later prompted the Congress of South African Students (Cosas) to issue a call to stop publishing matric results in newspapers, saying it violated the right to privacy. However, the South African Depression and Anxiety Group (Sadag) has previously debunked the popular belief that suicides spike during the release of matric results. In an interview last year with The New Age, Sadag’s Naazia Ismail said there was a general misconception about suicide rates in teens during this time. “I think it is because the media generally focuses on suicide rates among teens during the release of end-of-schooling results, but teenagers face pressures throughout the year. That is a constant,” Ismail said. She said that there was no increase in suicides but that some teens did commit suicide when faced with pressures either from home, school or their social surroundings. “We do see an increase in awareness around mental issues such as stress, depression, and anxiety during exams and the release of results,” Ismail said. “This then causes teens and others to reach out for help from the organisation.” According to the World Health Organisation, a suicide occurs every 40 seconds and an attempt is made every three seconds. Meanwhile, the GBVCC can be reached toll-free on 0800 428 428 and callers can also request a Social Worker contact them by dialing *120*7867# (free) from any cell phone. Deaf matriculants can also interact with the Command Centre using Skype. -TNA Reporter  