Deputy Public Enterprises Minister Ben Martins has confirmed some of the details of former Prasa CEO Lucky Montana‘s testimony at the commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture at Eskom. Martins confirmed that he indeed facilitated a meeting between himself, Tony Gupta and Montana where some of the parastatal’s tenders were discussed. On Tuesday, Montana testified that he had met Tony Gupta while with Martins. Martins said there was nothing untoward about requesting a meeting between himself, Tony Gupta and Montana as Tony wanted clarity on certain matters. “I saw nothing untoward in arranging this meeting between Tony Gupta and Mr Montana as its aim was to clarify and give answers to the questions that Mr Gupta had posed to me,” Martins told the commission in Parliament. Martins said, at no stage did he ask Montana to unduly or illegally assist Tony Gupta and there was no unlawful or malicious intent on his part in facilitating a meeting. “I think it is important to remember that at the time the meeting occurred in 2012, the context and public image of members of the Gupta family was not what it is today in 2018, namely a family perceived and projected as the personification of corruption incarnate.” Martins said all he knew about the Guptas was that they were an Indian family, originally from India, who owned medium sized BEE company Sahara and that they were trying to expand their business beyond computers. He refuted former Eskom head of legal services Suzanne Daniels’ testimony that she was with him, Ajay Gupta, Duduzane Zuma and a Chinese woman where a case against former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe was allegedly discussed. Martins said, on the said date, he was nowhere near Melrose Arch as he was, among other things, attending former deputy president spokesperson Ronnie Mamoepa’s funeral in Pretoria and an ANC’s lekgotla, chaired by Enoch Godongwana. Martins indicated that during his tenure, the department had received many queries related to tenders, contracts, customer complaints and various stakeholder-related queries. Martins also said he was called by Tony Gupta about the possibility of a plane carrying wedding guests to land at OR Tambo Airport and for a welcoming reception to be held there. “I declined this request on 9 June 2013, thereafter I was deployed to the Department of Energy.” Martins said he believed that no one should be allowed to use the parliamentary inquiry as a platform to settle personal vendettas or as a vehicle for organised character assassination. “If there is anyone who has proof of me having been a party to the commission of a crime, they have a moral and civil duty to the police or any other relevant law enforcement authority.” -TNA Reporter