The DA has tabled a motion of no confidence against city of Cape Town Executive Mayor Patricia de Lille. The party on Wednesday morning announced its federal executive had authorised the motion because for the first time in Cape Town’s history, a council-mandated probe was of the view that a sitting mayor demonstrated behaviour which constituted gross misconduct. BREAKING: The Federal Executive of the Democratic Alliance has authorized the DA caucus in the City of Cape Town to lodge a motion of no confidence in Mayor Patricia #DeLille.https://t.co/qWhJY1MRLb — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) January 31, 2018 The DA’s city caucus has voted in favour of the move, which means it can now officially lodge the motion. This is due to a number of reasons: 1. For the first time in CPT’s history, a Council-mandated investigation took the view that the sitting Mayor had demonstrated behaviour which constituted gross misconduct, dereliction of duty, & conduct that amounted to deceiving Council. — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) January 31, 2018 2. These prima facie findings have been supported by the fact that the Auditor-General has downgraded the City’s audit status from clean, to unqualified with conditions. — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) January 31, 2018 The AG’s findings include failures of leadership at the first level of assurance, which includes the Executive Mayor, and the subsequent governance breakdown that flows from that. — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) January 31, 2018 The vast majority of financial findings relate to the Transport and Urban Development Authority (TDA) which the Mayor has routinely and very publicly defended. Poor consequence management of senior managers
Consistent loss of revenue within the TDA
Irregular expenditure — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) January 31, 2018 On upgrades to #DeLille‘s home: The AG in the disclosure and listing of irregular expenditure in the financial statements has, in fact, found that upgrades to #DeLille‘s home were irregular- exposing previous claims by the Mayor as blatantly false. — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) January 31, 2018 On the drought crisis: #DeLille actively withheld information, misdirected officials, delayed budget decisions, interfered with project plans and undermined the rollout of augmentation projects as a result. — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) January 31, 2018 For months, de Lille has been at the centre of several serious allegations, many of which had been leveled at her by colleagues. -TNA Reporter