Mamelodi Sundowns gave debuts to New Zealander Jeremy Brockie and Uruguayan Gaston Sirino on Saturday as they stretched their South African Premiership lead to four points by outclassing Platinum Stars 3-0 in Pretoria. Brockie moved from neighbouring club SuperSport United and has been a long-time target of Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane, who calls the striker a “sniper”. Attacking midfielder Sirino joined the record seven-time Premiership winners after being watched by Mosimane playing for Bolivian side Bolivar. Another new signing, former Cape Town City winger Aubrey Ngoma, was also introduced during the second half and the trio looked comfortable as Sundowns cruised to an expected win. The top-versus-bottom clash was over as a contest by half-time at Loftus Versfeld stadium, which 2016 African champions Sundowns share with three-time Super Rugby title-holders Northern Bulls. Sibusiso Vilakazi put Sundowns ahead midway through the opening half, then want-away Zimbabwean Khama Billiat twice scored direct from free-kicks. Billiat has been linked with Azerbaijan outfit and 2017-2018 UEFA Champions League group qualifiers Qarabag, who recently sold South Africa striker Dino Ndlovu to a Chinese club. “Khama was brilliant and we played well at times, although our final passes let us down occasionally,” said Mosimane against a backdrop of dancing, singing supporters. There has been constant position changes below Sundowns this season with Cape Town City back in second sport after a 1-0 derby victory over second-last Ajax Cape Town. A second-half goal from Craig Martin won the match for City, whose coach Benni McCarthy was recently fined 50,000 rand (about $4,000/3,300 euros) for calling a referee a “cow”. Free State Stars, traditional relegation battlers who have exceeded expectations recently under Belgian coach Luc Eymael, slipped to third after a shock 3-0 home hammering from Maritzburg United. After a goalless opening half in central town Bethlehem, Belgian Andrea Fileccia, Zimbabwean Evans Rusike and Bandile Shandu scored for fourth-place Maritzburg. Orlando Pirates teenager Lyle Foster netted from close range with only four minutes left to salvage a 1-1 draw against Polokwane City in Soweto and secure fifth place. Former Zimbabwe Premier League Golden Boot winner Dominic Chungwa scored on his debut for Polokwane, volleying a loose ball into the net after 18 minutes. SuperSport United, one of the pre-season title favourites, remained in the bottom half of the table after losing 2-0 at relegation-threatened AmaZulu in Durban. Former South Africa striker Siyabonga Nomvethe, now 40 years old, put the home side ahead and Zimbabwean Ovidy Karuru added a second goal on the stroke of half-time. -AFP