SPARKS flew yesterday at the Life Esidimeni Arbitration hearings in Johannesburg during day three of former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu’s testimony. This as Legal Aid South Africa advocate Lilla Crouse tested the former MEC’s limits of self-control. Crouse is representing the families of psychiatric patients who survived the deadly and chaotic Mental Health Marathon Project which resulted in the deaths of 143 patients. A total of 59 other patients remain unaccounted for. Crouse butted heads with Mahlangu when she demanded that she answered “yes” or “no” to her questions. Crouse has accused Mahlangu of being dishonest and shifting responsibility to officials on the basis that she was only a political head. Minutes into cross-examination Mahlangu made it clear that she would only answer questions on her political role and “just a politician”. Justice Dikgang Moseneke found himself having to play referee between the two, urging them to be calm. Crouse said that while Mahlangu blames her officials, who she claims
misled her for the tragedy, she was in  Crouse relied on the report of health ombudsman Prof Malegapuru Makgoba where the former MEC admitted that she was campaigning for the local government elections during the Marathon Health Project. Mahlangu hit back, saying she was carrying out her political work. “Who told you to go campaign during the marathon project when patients were dying?” Crouse said. She also said that the former MEC travelled to Dubai and only returned before the release of the report of the ombudsman. Mahlangu insisted that campaigning was part of her political mandate. “First of all, I was doing my political work and secondly I wasn’t aware that patients were dying…you are being unfair, counsel,” she said. Mahlangu raised the ire of families who heckled and shouted at her during her testimony, accusing her of lying on the stand. Many shouted louder as she said she was not a prophet and therefore could not have foreseen the tragedy. After much protest, Mahlangu admitted that the human rights of patients were violated. With her “feet held to the fire” Mahlangu asked justice Moseneke to make a ruling as she said she had a suspicion that her character was being assassinated. “I’m getting an impression that this is about my character more than anything else and if so could I be allowed to have my lawyer?” she said. The former MEC had earlier bemoaned the arbitration process, saying she was being asked technical questions that were impossible to answer. “I came here willingly to assist the tribunal but the situation I find myself in is difficult. “I’m being asked technical questions that no politician in South Africa can answer,” she said. Mahlangu insisted that she be asked questions relating to her political role and not questions on an administrative role. Moseneke assured her that she enjoyed the same protection as other witnesses and that it was his job to ensure that she was protected during her testimony. Crouse said that Mahlangu was only worried about her political career and not the welfare of patients. Mahlangu objected, to which families said she was lying. Her testimony resumes today. leratod@thenewage.co.za -LERATO DIALE