The City of Cape Town Municipal manager Achmat Ebrahim has resigned. City of Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille announced Ebrahim’s resignation which is in effect from Friday, February 12. De Lille says in his resignation letter, Ebrahim made it clear that he is able to quite easily in order to defend the allegations made against him in the Bowman Gilfillan, Inc report. The report written by Law firm Bowman Gilfillan was to establish if disciplinary action should be taken against City of Cape Town’s Manager Ebrahim, Commissioner of Transport & Urban Development Melissa Whitehead and the Executive Director Directorate of the Mayor Craig Kesson. The firm has also dealt with De Lille’s conduct. De Lille says Ebrahim further stated that, in terms of the ongoing investigations, he would furnish her office with copies of all the evidence files as they pertain to his involvement in these allegations which have already been handed to Bowman Gilfillan Inc and which clearly show that the allegations against him are baseless. “After almost 40 years of dedicated and loyal service with an unblemished record, he stated in his letter that his obvious primary consideration at this stage of his life was that of his personal and his family’s well-being,” De Lille said. She said Ebrahim has an untarnished and remarkable track record of nearly 40 years as a public servant, most recently having served as the City Manager for more than 12 years during the past three terms of office. “In addition to his formal qualifications and nearly four decades of experience in local government administration, he served more than 26 years at the senior level.” He was employed at the Executive Management level for more than 20 years with various responsibilities in several portfolios since 1997. De Lille says Ebrahim has an impeccable and proven track record and, for the period during which he had served as City Manager, the City earned numerous achievements and accolades including unqualified and clean audits. He has been instrumental in leading the City administration to be the best in the country. “His resignation is indeed a great loss to the City of Cape Town and its residents. I have come to know and respect Mr Ebrahim as a principled, hardworking public servant. “His experience has been invaluable. It was an honour for me to work with him as a like-minded individual who always saw the need to act with urgency and in the best interests of the residents of our city. I wish Mr Ebrahim well for the future and thank him for his commitment and outstanding service to the people of Cape Town,” De Lille said. -TNA Reporter