IT IS safe to say the last day of 2017 was eventful and has engraved long lasting memories in the hearts and minds of many South Africans. Different music events were held and made sure that South Africans crossed over to the new year with a bang. In Johannesburg, AfroPunk, one of the biggest music festivals brought to the country, might have started off on a wrong foot after various glitches but there was light at the end of the tunnel as attendees raved about it. The two-day event was dealt a blow when Solange Knowles announced on her Instagram account she would not be performing at the festival on December 31 due to a health threat. The Cranes In The Sky hitmaker was expected to headline the festival with numerous African artists, American musician Anderson Paak and The Free Nationals. In a lengthy Instagram post, Knowles cited health issues as the reason she could not make it. “I can’t thank AfroPunk enough for their support and to all of the other festivals this past season who have known about my health, kept it confidential and gone out of their way to make me feel supported while doing these shows,” she said. The news brought social media to a standstill as fans voiced their disappointment while others were hell bent on going and said nothing would stop them from attending the highly talked about event. Hundreds of people braved the rainy weather and arrived at Constitution Hill wearing colourful, street smart and cultural attire to enjoy the sounds of artists such as Black Motion, Thebe, DJ Doowap, Rudeboyz and many others. Meanwhile in KwaZulu-Natal, the annual Fact Durban Rocks New Year’s Eve concert at the Moses Mabhida Stadium on Sunday, had its fair share of drama when it was announced that Nigerian superstar Davido had withdrawn from performing at the event. Festival director DJ Tira announced the Fall hitmaker’s cancellation on Twitter on Saturday morning, just one day before the event and said he would be replaced by AKA. The artist issued a statement reassuring fans that the show would go on without the Nigerian superstar. “In fact, Durban Rocks has never needed international acts to sell out. Local artists have done this for the past seven years and this year will be no different. This year we wanted to book someone who was popular with our fans and say thank you for their support and we wanted to unite Africa through music,” he said. Not all was lost as many took to social media to gush about the event which saw A-list performers such as Babes Wodumo, Oskido and Amanda Black hit the stage. New Year’s Eve would not have been complete without the SABC’s Come Duze annual New Year’s Eve party that saw scores of people tuned in to hear which song was crowned as song of the year. Radio jock Dineo Ranaka alongside Selimathunzi’s Siphesihle Vazi were hosts that made sure fans and party-goers were entertained. NONTOKOZO GXUMISA