Former Eskom CEO Brian Molefe has been ordered to pay back any amount he received as part of a much-contested R30m pension payout. North Gauteng High Court Judge Elias Matojane on Thursday ruled that Molefe’s controversial reinstatement at the state-owned company last year was unlawful and therefore set aside. The court has ordered Molefe to pay back the money within 10 days from the date of the order. He has also been ordered to pay the costs of two attorneys in the case. In November, Trade union Solidarity challenged Molefe’s initial early retirement and the subsequent pension payout arguing that they were neither lawful nor within the framework of Eskom’s pension and provident fund. Solidarity welcomed Thursday’s judgment adding that they now plan to make representations to the NPA to institute a criminal prosecution against the former CEO. “It is a sad state of affairs when high profile South Africans have to go to court in a bid to defend corrupt activities. The unlawful pension award granted to Molefe conforms to the classic definition of corruption,” Solidarity Chief Executive Dirk Hermann said. Molefe had stepped down as CEO following the release of the 2016 State of Capture report by former Public Protector Thuli Madonsela, which implicated him in various acts of alleged corruption. Eskom later announced it would give him an R30m pension payout, a decision Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown opposed. According to Solidarity, Molefe has reportedly already received in the region of R11 million as part of that payout. In February last year, Parliament confirmed the nomination of Molefe as an ANC member of Parliament. Then, in an about turn, Molefe returned to Eskom following a board decision to reinstate him as CEO. However, later during the same month, an inter-ministerial committee on Eskom, appointed by President Jacob Zuma, ordered that the power utility’s board rescind Molefe’s reappointment. Meanwhile, the ANC Study Group on Public Enterprises has also welcomed Thursday’s judgment saying the decision to reappoint Molefe was ” reckless and not in the interest of public confidence in our power utility,” ANC STUDY GROUP ON PUBLIC ENTERPRISES WELCOMES MOLEFE JUDGEMENT pic.twitter.com/Fkdj71UhLF — ANC Parliament (@ANCParliament) January 25, 2018 -TNA Reporter