The ANC in Gauteng says the ongoing financial crisis in the city of Johannesburg is the result of interference by Executive Mayor Herman Mashaba. According to the party, the ongoing financial crisis in the city resulted in invoices of service providers, mostly small enterprises, amounting to R2 billion not being paid in December. “Key service delivery entities are already struggling to keep up service delivery standards and this can be attributed to political meddling by Mashaba and his coalition partners. The political meddling has come in many forms that include the poaching of qualified and competent executives in key municipal functions such as the departments of finance and corporate shared services, which includes the human resources unit,” the ANC said in a statement. The party attributed a recent blitz by the mayor, who went on a campaign in the city to collect about R1 billion in owed revenues as a way to fix its financial woes, as “leading to the municipality unfairly targeting residents in a bid to balance its penniless books.”  The ANC has also accused Mashaba of not following rules in the appointment of some officials.  “The ANC has noted with great disappointment that Mashaba has again flaunted human resources’ rules to appoint an unqualified acting chief financial officer (CFO) to safeguard his personal interests while neglecting the rest of the institution.” It said the acting CFO misled the city while he was introduced as someone who had worked in the city manager’s office as a director before his appointment.  “Furthermore, his recent appointment was never brought to council for approval.”  The ANC said this way of appointing executives had become a trend as political appointees were appointed without following the prescribed municipal human resources rules. “The ANC views these contraventions as yet another sign that Mashaba is failing and the DA-led coalition will not remove him as it does not believe that the people of Johannesburg deserve better.”  Efforts to get the DA to respond were unsuccessful -TNA Reporter