Hawks spokesperson Hangwani Mulaudzi has said the crime investigating team will only know how fruitful last week’s raid of the Free State premier and provincial agriculture department’s offices was once they get a report back from officials. Mulaudzi said they did not encounter problems during the raid. “Investigators were able to seize the required documents.” At the same time, Mulaudzi said the Hawks would not confirm any reports regarding claims that Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane would be arrested. The Sunday newspapers claimed that the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) had prepared an indictment against Zwane as well as the three Gupta brothers in relation to the Free State diary project – claims the NPA has denied. Last Friday, the Hawks seized computers and documents at both the provincial agriculture department and Free State Premier Ace Magashule’s office. Speaking at an ANC Youth League rally in Pietermaritzburg on Sunday afternoon, Magashule said if the Hawks find any wrongdoing on the Vrede farm they must act without fear. The free state Estina Dairy Project known as Vrede farm was meant to empower local dairy farmers in the area, which was also going to make them majority shareholders in the project. According to reports each farmer was expected to receive one million and five cattle’s to kick-start their venture. “I see they are trying to intimidate us. We accept the law must take its course. They must investigate and decide and if any wrongdoing was done, they must act without fear,” Magashule said. Meanwhile, the DA has tabled a motion of no confidence against Magashule. The DA said it was of the view that the motion was a matter of urgency considering the amount used in the project. “This is the tip of the iceberg. Other scandals include the Letlaka Media buying scandal, the massive allegations of corruption within the department of police, roads and transport, the R95 million provincial website scandal, the R120 million Ramkraal Legislature Complex scandal and many more,” the DA said in a statement. -Sipho Jack