PARENTS have come out in support of the Gauteng department of education in its court battle against the exclusion of pupils due to language at a Vaal school. The department appeared in the North Gauteng High Court in Pretoria yesterday to respond to an urgent application by the school governing body of Hoërskool Overvaal in Vereeniging to prevent the department from forcing it to take in more pupils. This follows an intervention by the department for the school to take in non-Afrikaans speaking pupils who are forced to attend English medium schools far from their homes. Yesterday concerned parents came out in their numbers to support the department and demanding transformation in schools. The transformation committee chairperson, Tlhoriso Mofokeng, said: “This school is the only high school in our area which covers about six suburbs. Other schools are about 15km away.” He said as parents they saw the need for them to act as some of their children wake up as early as 4am to prepare for school which starts at 8.15am. “It is time consuming for children and equally for the parents. Some spend around R6000 every month and our children go past a school every day in their area,” Mofokeng said. Another concerned parent, Maselema Mokamedi, who is experiencing language problems with schools in Pretoria North said Afrikaans-speaking schools must introduce at least one African language. “We do not hate Afrikaans but as an African parent I feel that it is unfair that my language must be swept under the carpet while Afrikaans is at the top,” he said. Department spokesperson Steve Mabona said they would await the court’s decision tomorrow. “What is important to us is access to education for all our pupils. We have evidence and we can confirm that there is space at that school, so the pupils must be admitted,” he said. Mabona said the school had 621 pupils and has the capacity to accommodate more than 800 pupils. “We will push and make sure that our schools are accessible. If there is a need, the schools need to introduce other languages. “We are working closely with the schools to ensure that they introduce different languages,” he said.   -SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE|shonisanit@thenewage.co.za