Universities across the country are taking stringent measures to avoid chaos and possible stampedes amid threats by EFF leader Julius Malema to occupy the gates of all higher learning institutions when enrolment begins. In 2012, a mother who had accompanied her son to enrol at the University of Johannesburg was crushed to death when thousands of prospective students tried to force their way into the institution’s premises. There were 17 other people injured. Universities South Africa (USAf), said yesterday that encouraging pupils who had not applied or had been provisionally accepted to show up at institutions may result in a repeat of the 2012 events with the potential to cause injury. “USAf is deeply concerned by the call made by some political leaders for students to simply turn up at universities for enrolment without having made appropriate prior arrangements for their admission. “All 26 universities closed towards the end of 2017, no walk-in applications will be accepted,” the organisation’s Prof Ahmed Bawa said. At the weekend, Malema called on students who passed matric extremely well in the past and found themselves working as petrol attendants or retail and security workers because they couldn’t afford university fees to report to the academic institution of their choice this year. “We must make sure that in 2018 all academically-deserving students are admitted free to South African universities and FET colleges. “The EFF will be at the gates of all learning institutions to ensure that priority is not only given to those who can afford to pay,” he said. This as hundreds of thousands of matric pupils wait to hear their final results this week and will be flocking to various higher learning institutions where tuition has been declared free by President Jacob Zuma. However, USAf also raised concerns about Zuma’s announcement, saying all South Africa’s 26 public universities were taken by surprise by the announcement. Bawa said the absence of a clear implementation strategy, implementation plan and adequate roll-out time for such a significant development in the funding of public higher education systems was a concern. “Ideally, we would have liked a year to roll out the new system, instead we have two to three weeks. “We have repeatedly raised our concerns about the use of the student fee issue as a political football. “This is not just disingenuous but also opens the way for the issue to be used for purely political purposes as we have just seen,” he said. A total of 634 527 full time and 168 109 part-time candidates registered to write matric this year. Last year, the North West University had the highest new student intake at just more than 46000. dikeledir@thenewage.co.za