BEING the number one ranked bowler in the world has inspired Proteas fast bowler Kagiso Rabada to do even more in the second Test against India at SuperSport Park tomorrow. Rabada was named the number one bowler in the ICC rankings after his five wickets helped Proteas to beat India by 72 runs in the first Test. The 22 year old now wants to prove that he deserves to be number one by producing another clinical performance in the second Test tomorrow. “It’s what I always wanted to do, reach No 1. Now, I just want to keep performing and winning games for the team and to keep getting better and better,” Rabada said. “There’s always something you can improve on. Once you get something right, there’s always something new that you can work on. “I need to just do more and more, striving for perfection. You are never going to reach perfection but at least try to get there and thereabouts.” A win for the Proteas will see them clinch the series as they will have a 2-0 unassailable lead in the three-match Test series as they head to Pretoria with a 1-0 lead. Rabada, who has been key for the Proteas with 34 Test caps to his name believes he can still bowl faster. “I don’t know how fast I can get but I always try my best. I can feel when I am bowling quickly and when I am not. “Sometimes I feel I am bowling quickly and the speed gun says 145 or sometimes I can feel like I bowl a decent ball and the speed gun says 131. I feel like the pace is something that’s already there, what’s important is the skill.” With Dale Steyn out, Rabada, Vernon Philander, Morne Morkel and either Chris Morris or Andile Phehlukwayo will lead the attack again tomorrow. “Unfortunately Dale is out of the attack now. It would have been an extra bonus over the summer but I am glad that I have bowled with him and I will hopefully bowl with him again in the future. “Our bowling attack is skilled as you’ve seen in the past and in the last game. It feels great to be playing alongside these veterans.” India meanwhile, will be looking to win the match and level the series 1-1 heading into the final Test at Wanderers next week. Having lost the opening Test, this one in Centurion promises to be a thriller. nevillek@thenewage.co.za