On top of claiming to have been oblivious to what was happening, former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu further shocked the families of the Esidimeni victims by saying she would have been breaking the law if she intervened in operational duties that led to the death of 143 people. Mahlangu’s testimony at the Esidimeni Arbitratoion was marred with hackles from the gallery as she put all the blame on her footsoldiers. “My officials misled me, the decision to terminate the Life Esidimeni was not mine alone but that of the collective. I’m actually the one who asked the health ombudsman to investigate the deaths of the then 36 patients,” she said. Until she was contacted by the media last year, Mahlangu said she did not suspect anything sinister about the Mental Health Marathon Project. She thought the patients were dying of natural causes. She went on to say that her duties are not operational by law that she would be breaking the law if she overreached her powers because she was not an administrator nor an official but a political head. The former MEC appeared defiant as she was asked if she accepted the report into the deaths of 143 by health ombudsman Professor Malegapuru Makgabo. “I note the findings of the report and I think that (resignation) suffices. I do not agree with the findings of the ombudsman that I was negligent,” she said. She denied evading responsibility for the tragedy saying her resignation and willingness to appear before the tribunal were part of her taking responsibility. SECTION27 advocate Adila Hassim asked her if she was offered any package to facilitate her resignation. “I’m not aware of any golden handshake. I offered to go,” Mahlangu said. Despite denying being in any way responsible for the tragedydid apologise to the families before she started testifying, saying she had no intention of harming the mentally ill patients. She kept referring to former department top officials Dr Barney Selebano and Dr Makgabo Manamela as being among the people who misled her. She said she trusted them as they were highly qualified, had served in the department for long and were professionals. “I had no reason to doubt or not believe information given to me by officials,” she said. When asked if she received an email from SADAG warning her of the negative consequences, she said she needed to refresh her mind, despite the email being shown to her by one of the lawyers. “I really need to refresh my mind on what could have been the issue and don’t mind coming back tomorrow to give an answer,” she said. The proceedings will resume tomorrow. leratod@thenewage.co.za