CALLS for the school governing body (SGB) to be disbanded and 55 pupils to be admitted to Hoërskool Overvaal were some of the demands contained in the memorandum by hundreds of protesters who gathered at the school yesterday. The large group was made up of members of the South African Democratic Teachers Union, student body Cosas, Cosatu and the community at large. The school’s exclusion of 55 pupils who do not speak Afrikaans sparked the protest. The memorandum also asked the Sedibeng East district director to deal with issues related to language policies and transformation across the district, along with an investigation into the district school admission processes and an audit that looked at how many pupils at the school lived more than 5km away. Paul Hlatwayo, a principal at a school in the Vaal who lives in Falcon Ridge where the school is situated, said the doors of learning had become closed due to the actions of the school. “I stay here in Falcon Ridge and my child cannot attend the school. My child has to attend school in Three Rivers,so we are totally against this,” he said. Cosas’s Wandile Mofokeng, a member of the provincial executive, said the class of 1976 fought against education in Afrikaans and now, in democratic South Africa, the same fight was being fought, which was unfortunate. “All these schools that have a racist agenda, we are coming for them,” Mofokeng said. George Raborifi, a Sadtu Vereeniging branch education convener, told The New Age that a negotiation process with the school to allow English-speaking pupils to attend the school started as far back as 2008. “Transformation is gradual. After the 55 pupils have been admitted, another group of pupils will arrive and at the end of their Grade 12 year, the school will be transformed,” he said. Gauteng department of education spokesperson Steve Mabona said they had met with all stakeholders and they would allow the court process to take place. “If you want to support us, come support us, because we have taken the issue to appeal,” Mabona said. He said the disruptions were a concern and they were condemned by the education department. “Even the submission of the memorandum is disruptive. The school is closed and there was supposed to be learning taking place today,” Mabona said. hlonim@thenewage.co.za -HLONI MASHIGO