Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini will today get an opportunity to convince the Constitutional Court why she should not be held liable in her personal capacity and carry the cost of the confusion between her department and Cash Pay Services (CPS). The inquiry follows a Constitutional Court order declaring that Dlamini be joined in her personal capacity to litigation brought by the Centre for Applied Legal Studies (CALS) on behalf of civil rights group Black Sash against the Social Security Agency of South Africa (Sassa), the department and CPS. It sought to ensure that the social grant payment system would be protected when the contract between Sassa and CPS ended in March 2017. The Constitutional Court called on the minister to explain why she should not be joined to the case in her personal capacity and pay the costs of the application out of her own pocket. It also ruled that the minister bears the primary responsibility to ensure that Sassa fulfills its functions. Last year, the court ruled that the Minister explain why she should not be held liable in her personal capacity. The inquiry will be chaired by retired Judge Bernard Ngoepe and will investigate whether Dlamini sought the appointment of individuals to lead the “work streams” to report directly to her, details on when the individuals were appointed, who they reported to and the details of the dates and contents of the report of the work streams to the minister and why she did not disclose this information to the Constitutional Court. The members of the work streams were appointed by Dlamini to help Sassa put together a plan to take over the payment of social grants. Black Sash brought the initial application against the department. The group’s national advocacy manager Hoodah Abrahams-Fayker said Black Sash welcomed the inquiry but cautioned that it was not near finality as yet. “This process is part of ongoing litigation around the uncertainty beneficiaries still face about whether there will be a plan in place for the uninterrupted payment of social grants come 1 April 2018,” Black Sash member Angie Richardson said. Sassa recently delivered its first progress to the Constitutional Court in taking over the payment of social grants from 1 April after being ordered to give regular progress reports. It indicated a number of ways that it plans to pay out social grants, post the agreement with CPS. Among these measures is that the South African Post Office be provided with grant recipients’ information in order to open bank accounts for them. -TNA Reporter