WHILE ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa ANC execs ‘second-rate’ – Cosatu planned to engage with alliance partners in order to champion the needs of the people, Cosatu lambasted some ANC members of the executive as being second-rate and unhelpful. On Saturday during his maiden January 8 statement at the ANC’s 106th anniversary celebrations in East London, Ramaphosa said the reason behind engaging the alliance, was because it was fit to fight and champion the needs of the people. Cosatu national spokesperson Sizwe Pamla on the other hand had reservations in relation to Ramaphosa’s statement. “The ANC needs to give a face-lift to its government and make sure that it deploys people of high integrity who will at all times act with utmost professionalism,” Pamla said. “Some members of the current executive are second-rate and not helpful to the cause of a people centred and people driven development.” Some of the tasks of the ANC, which formed resolutions for 2018 at the party’s 54th national conference last month, were to work towards integrity and creditability. Whereby there was a need for cadres who are committed to serve no other interest than the interests of the people. Cosatu said the ANC cannot ignore the fact that since 2009 about 216 directors-general had been suspended, removed or shifted in 32 government departments, this as it was unsustainable and viewed as wholly unacceptable. Pamla urged for the reconfiguration of the alliance, which consists of the South African Communist Party, ANC and Cosatu. “We want the alliance to be led by the ANC whose perspective is based on an understanding that in contrast to many old-style nationalist movements in Africa, we believe that there can be no true national liberation without social emancipation,” Pamla said. University of South Africa emeritus Prof Shadrack Gutto said the leaders of the ANC have the responsibility to ensure their cadres are held accountable in terms of carrying out tasks of the ANC. “This is important because people especially the youth can determine how the 2019 national elections can be won or lost,” Gutto said. -REFILWE MAGASHULE|refilwem@thenewage.co.za