Durban-born DJ Boonu has been rocking the dance floors as one of Big Nuz’s DJs for seven years. The virtually self-taught DJ, who was mentored by the popular kwaito band and his record label boss DJ Tira, says he is grateful for the many lessons he has received from his mentors, who have ensured he gets in on the gqom action, which has been popular up on South African dance floors for the past 10 years. “I will not lie brother. I am grateful for the help and lessons Big Nuz and, to a larger extent DJ Tira, have imparted to me. “I am grateful for having travelled and worked with one of the hardest-working kwaito bands in the country. Whenever we were travelling with Big Nuz, we would compose music on the spot and use whatever we had to create a music vibe and then spend the rest of the night after travelling, recording the new songs. “It has been one of the greatest learning experiences of my life,” DJ Boonu told The New Age in a recent interview. Last month, the DJ partnered with Eyadini Lounge in Durban where he used the spirit of his hit song, Uswidi Wodwa (Sweets Only), by delivering sweets and food parcels to many people in Umlazi before Christmas Day. “I have decided to use my song to make other people happy,” he said of his initiative. Having learnt all the necessary lessons required to succeed in the local music business, the performer, named Andile Chili, has now taken a significant step in carving out a name for himself with the release of his new single, Uswidi Wodwa. To make sure he succeeded, DJ Boonu featured digital maskandi star Mashayabhuqe KaMamba, as well as Madanon and Igcokama Elisha on the single. “I wanted a different kind of gqom song that has maskandi elements in it and that is why I decided to feature these three guys who bring something new to my sound,” he said. DJ Boonu said his foray into the industry was rather bumpy as he had to fake his musical abilities until he was given no choice but to learn the tricks of the trade. This resulted in DJ Tira advising him to join his DJ academy so he could learn and master the art of mixing songs. “I did not know anything about mixing so when I was given a chance to play I would fake my mixing … and even when I was taught it was still difficult for me to master, until later on, DJ Tira told me to go for proper lessons and after that I haven’t looked back.” SIYABONGA SITHOLE siyabongas@thenewage.co.za