The Minister of Higher Education, Prof Hlengiwe Mkhize, believes the process of fee-free tertiary education will break down the subtle form of discrimination that exists in higher education. Speaking at the GCIS headquarters in Tshwane, the minister, accompanied by Minister of Communications Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane, State Security Minister Bongani Bongo and National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NFSFAS) CEO Zwane, said it was a process that would be phased in over five years. Mkhize said the announcement by President Jacob Zuma was in line with the fight to destruct the socio-economic legacies left by apartheid. Cost concerns had adequately been considered, Mkhize said. The absence of the finance minister at the meeting was due to his unavailability. Mkhize did, however, give the assurance that a high-level committee and technical team was part of the decision-making process, which included the Minister of Finance. She said Minister Malusi Gigaba had said the work being done in the process was within his expectations and they would not go beyond what has been parliamentary approved. “The weak economy, falling tax revenue growth, and rising debt have put significant pressure on the public finances. These pressures have limited the space for any new policy commitments. “Changes to the post-school education and training system will be undertaken in a fiscally sustainable manner,” she said. Mkhize said this means that the rolling out of reforms had to be adequately paced and measured. There were concerns, especially from the EFF, that there would be disruptions if walk-in students weren’t allowed to apply. She said the party was playing politics on an important issue that should be handled carefully by all South Africans. Bongo said that issues of education are also issues of state security. “We are working on a plan alongside student formations,” he said. Bongo didn’t divulge much about the plan but did say that as an interministerial team they were responding to what was resolved at the ANC conference. Meanwhile, students and graduates have been left confused about the late registration for NSFAS loans and debts, after President Jacob Zuma made the announcement about free higher education and training for poor and working-class families. NSFAS CEO Steven Zwane has provided clarity on loans, which are converted to bursaries, saying this only applied to students still in the education system. Zwane said students who are now studying, whether in their second or third years will have their loans converted to full bursaries if they meet the academic progression requirements and those who are no longer in the education system, like graduates, still need to repay their loans to NSFAS. Mkhize said: “NSFAS has already received more than 300000 applications for first-year students for the 2018 academic year at universities and TVET colleges.” Furthermore, she clarified the opening of late applications. “NSFAS is concerned about the incorrect information that we have reopened applications. “We have not reopened applications. Eligible students who didn’t apply for NSFAS but applied at institutions and were accepted will be assisted,” Zwane said. The NSFAS said it would work with institutions of higher learning to assist with funding decisions for students who have applied for academic spaces without having applied for NSFAS funding and others. Students are urged to make use of the central application clearing house if they are still seeking admission into post-school education and training. However, Wits University has finalised its applications for the 2018 academic year and said it would not be accepting any further applications for the first-semester intake. “Wits University has doubled its student numbers in the last two decades and the university’s enrolment plan is approved by the Department of Higher Education and Training,” Wits registrar Carol Crosley said. “Over-enrollment has a significant impact on the integrity of the university’s academic programme. “It stretches the university’s human resources capacity affecting workloads of lecturers, teaching and administrative staff), and impacts on infrastructure as the university only has a defined number of teaching venues.” The threshold to qualify for financial assistance has been increased for students from South African households with a combined annual income from R122000 to R350000 per annum. news@thenewage.co.za