The EFF has called on the SABC Board to resist all attempts by Minister of Communication Mamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane to bully it. EFF was responding to Kubayi-Ngubane’s announcement that she was unaware of the appointment of Chris Maroleng as the corporation’s COO following reports that he will be appointed. Kubayi-Ngubane said: “It is the minister’s responsibility to present any appointment of executives of the SoEs under the Department of Communications through Cabinet processes. To this end, the minister has no knowledge of any official appointment of a COO of SABC.” The post has remained vacant after the removal of Hlaudi Motsoeneng following a Parliamentary inquiry and a lengthy disciplinary inquiry. Party’s Spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said they see the minister’s assertion as yet another attempt to interfere with the independence of the SABC Board in doing its work. “The minister should refer to the North Gauteng High Court ordered that the appointment of executive members of the SABC must be done by non-executive members of the SABC Board. “The court further indicated that appointments will be done after consultation with the Minister, which means her opinion is not binding to the choices of executive appointments by the board.” He said in all the stages of the appointments of executives, there is nowhere it includes the cabinet. “It may very well be that cabinet is informed, but this is a mere matter of noting. The cabinet has no role, neither the President, in the appointment of SABC executives.” Ndlozi warned the minister about returning to the time when there was no accountability of any sort. “We advise Kubayi-Ngubane to resist returning the public broadcaster into the route of disreputable political interference it suffered under Faith Muthambi.” He said the idea that SABC is a public broadcaster rests entirely in respecting the process of appointing executives. If these are to be done by the cabinet, Ndlozi says not only will the SABC Board be rendered irrelevant but will also mean South Africa is now a State Broadcaster. -TNA Reporter     