A DEAD woman walking is what Thembeka Jali, 44, has been for the past 13 years. In 2005, the mother of three visited the South African Social Security Agency (Sassa) to apply for child grants and was told someone was already collecting the grants on her behalf. While Sassa was able to immediately block the payments, she later went to inquire at the Home Affairs offices in Durban where she was told she had died four months earlier. “They said a woman by the surname of Makhosi declared me dead and that we were relatives. I don’t know that person. I was very shocked,” she said. Jali said she had been to Home Affairs to resolve the matter with no luck. She said she was advised to get a new identity document by Home Affairs officials which she did, but it had not been issued. Her biggest challenge now is her six-year-old child, born in 2012, who cannot be issued a birth certificate and cannot go to school. “Technically, my child does not exist, because I also do not exist anymore. I cannot get a job, I cannot get grants for my children, I cannot do anything,” she said. Desperate, Jali contacted human rights focused NPO Bobbi Bear for help. The organisation’s Eureka Oliver said: “Her life ended the day her death certificate was issued, she has spent so much money trying to fix this. “It is heartbreaking that her children also have to also stop living because she cannot get them birth certificates, according to home affairs a dead woman cannot give birth. “She has done everything everyone has told her to do, yet she remains ‘dead’. I simply don’t even know where to start or how we can fix this.” Home Affairs spokesperson Thabo Mokgola said they did not have the full details of Jali’s case but they were looking into the matter and would communicate further with her. A few cases of people who find themselves dead on Home Affairs’ records have been reported in the past including that of Lanwisa Baloyi who was reportedly killed in a car accident and whose “dependents” collected compensation money from the Road Accident Fund. In 2010 Margarent Ngomane was informed that she had died in 1999. Both had either lost their IDs or someone else was using their identity numbers. news@thenewage.co.za