YOUNG drivers, between the ages of 25 and 34, remained the major contributors to road fatalities during the festive season. Although the number of road fatalities decreased by a significant 11% compared to last year, fatalities in the Western Cape and North West increased. The preliminary report released by Transport Minister Joe Maswanganyi yesterday stated there was an encouraging decline in the number of fatalities among drivers between the ages of 35 and 49. “We recorded noticeable declines in the number of fatalities in seven provinces with the exception of the Western Cape and the North West provinces which recorded 7% and 11% increases respectively,” he said. Limpopo had the highest reduction rate followed by the Free State and KwaZulu-Natal. “The highest number of fatalities was among pedestrians which increased from 34% to 37% and fatalities among drivers also increased from 23% to 27%. “However, there was a decline in passenger fatalities from 41% to 35% which indicates that it is possible to save more lives if more people use safety belts.” There was an increase in the number of fatalities within the municipal boundaries of eThekwini, Johannesburg, Nkangala, Cape Town, Ekurhuleni, Ehlanzeni, Capricorn, the city of Tshwane, Thabo Mofutsanyane and Bojanala. “Speed continues to be a major headache with 922 drivers arrested compared to 785 in the 2016-17 period. While drunken driving was a major focus area during the period under review, there was, however, a decline in the number of motorists arrested for drunken driving from 5 943 in the 2016-17 period to 3 301 in the 2017-18 period,” he said. Maswanganyi said they engaged magistrates as part of the process to ensure that there were tough consequences for those who break the rules of the road, particularly drunk drivers, speedsters and reckless and negligent drivers. “This is part of finalising the reclassification process of these offences into Schedule 5 offences, which are more severe,” he said. The overall number of people killed on the roads in December and January nationally was 1527. kutullom@thenewage.co.za