Ahead of the 2018 Oscar Awards local film Inxeba: The Wound made its South African preview screening at Tiso Blackstar Screening Room in Parktown last Friday. The screening comes just days after Awards Watch, which tracks and predicts the nominees and winners of the Oscar, gave the film an 80% chance of winning the foreign language film race. South African film fans will have to wait for February 2 for the film to finally hit cinemas. Two weeks ago, Nakhane Touré, star of the controversial film, won the the International Federation of Film Critics prize for best actor in a foreign language film at the 29th Annual Palm Springs International Film Festival in California. The prize took the tally of the film’s accolades to 19 since it premiered at Sundance Film Festival last year. Guy Lodge, writing for Variety magazine, described the film thus: “The coming-of-age drama has developed as clearly inscribed a template as any genre in the contemporary filmmaker’s playbook. “The Wound, a stark, stirring variation on the form from a little-filmed corner of South Africa, should prompt at least one outright gasp as it details the fallout of an age-old initiation ritual for adolescent boys in the rural Xhosa community.” The film tells the story of Xolani (Touré), a Xhosa factory worker and initiate who joins the other men of his community on a journey to the mountains to initiate a group of teenagers into manhood. His entire existence starts to unravel when a defiant initiate from the city discovers his best-kept secret, a forbidden love. RogertEbert.com described John Trengove’s direction as “strong and sure”, characterising The Wound as “a film that deals with issues of masculinity, sexuality and community that will strike universal chords with viewers of all stripes, regardless of where they are from or where their beliefs may lie”. The New York Times said: “Trengove’s direction is perfectly judged up to and including the shudder-inducing ending.” South African cinema goers will have to wait until tomorrow for the nominees announcement confirming whether the film makes it to the second short-list for the best foreign language film category where it is nominated alongside eight other films from other countries. The winning film will be announced on March 4. siyabongas@thenewage.co.za