FRESH from being handed power by Jacob Zuma, ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa has promised to crack the whip on ill-discipline in the ruling party as it attempts to open a new chapter after a bruising elective conference. Delivering his maiden ANC January 8 statement in a Buffalo City stadium in East London teeming with thousands of party supporters, Ramaphosa did not mince his words when he said he would haul ill-disciplined party members and leaders to the ANC’s Luthuli House headquarters in a showing of commitment to rid the ANC rank and file of factionalism. “Any member of the national executive committee (NEC), any member of the provincial executive committee (PEC), we will call them. I myself as president, I will call them, come and explain why in the year of unity and renewal are you dividing the ANC. “And we say this because we were given a clear mandate by our people, by the delegates that you sent to the conference, and you said that you want a united ANC,” Ramaphosa said. The ANC’s newly-elected NEC also put on a show of unity, with Zuma in attendance. Appearing to be magnanimous in victory, Ramaphosa thanked Zuma for establishing a commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture. Ramaphosa said that he was hopeful that the commission would rid state-owned enterprises of corruption. “Corruption in state-owned enterprises and other public insittons has undermined our government’s programs to address poverty and unemployment. We are going to confront corruption and state capture in all its forms,” he said. Ramaphosa also said that corruption in the private sector posed an equal threat. “They can call it collusion, financial irregularties, it’s all the same,” he said. Refering to the ANC’s programme of radical economic transformation, Ramaphosa said that the matter would remain a key prioriy for the ANC as it prepares for the 2019 general elections. “The concentration of ownership of our economy in the hands of a white minority constrains sustainable growth and transformation. We will work to change the ownership structure of our economy,” he said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za