THE ANC’s national executive committee (NEC) will deal with the grievances of a disgruntled group of ANC members who yesterday picketed outside the provincial head office in Durban yesterday. About 150 members, mainly supporters of Senzo Mchunu and ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa, said they were angry about the interim provincial structure, alleging that it was loaded in favour of the disbanded provincial executive committee led by Sihle Zikalala. They are also worried that three months given to the interim structure to prepare for a general conference was too short. A leader of the picketing group, Mthunzi Dlamini, from eThekwini’s ward 102 said one of their worries was that some members may not be able to vote and they wanted a new structure. “We believe that the three months given to the interim structure is very short to ensure that all members take part in the provincial conference. Remember that there are members who applied online for new membership and their applications were not processed and that means they can’t take part in the conference. “Basically we are saying they must open up membership and extend the time as the problems we face in the province are too many to be resolved in three months,” Dlamini said. However, other senior members of the pro-Mchunu group like prominent eThekwini councillor Sthenjwa Nyawose shouted Dlamini down, telling him that they didn’t recognise the interim structure and would not engage with it next week. “They must leave office as we don’t want them and we won’t talk to them until they are dissolved and a new structure is formed,” Nyawose said. The group hurled insults at ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule accusing him of selecting the interim structure which they alleged favours the suspended PEC led by Zikalala. Also not spared from the insulting songs was the country’s president, Jacob Zuma, Dr Nkosazana DlaminiZuma and Zuma’s son Duduzane. Instead they sang pro-Mchunu and Ramapahosa songs. After meeting with three members from the picketers, the convener of the interim structure, Mike Mabuyakhulu and Zikalala told the media that they were aware of the issue of the composition of the interim structure. Mabuyakhulu said the matter was being dealt with internally in the ANC. “The issue is being looked at by the NEC as it is being dealt with internally,” Mabuyakhulu said. Zikalala confirmed that they would, together with the PEC, meet the faction that was rejecting the interim team to listen to its concerns and find solutions. -SIHLE MAVUSO