WHEN Benni McCarthy was still a hot-shot footballer demanding moves to bigger teams, he never thought that one day he would be a coach who needs to keep his best players. What McCarthy is feeling now as players like Lebo Manyama, Aubrey Ngoma, Lehlohonolo Majoro and Robyn Johannes leave the club for greener pastures could be what overseas managers felt throughout the former Bafana Bafana striker’s career. The first to feel it must have been Morten Olsen, when Celta Vigo called Ajax Amsterdam for the striker. Miguel Angel Lotina, too, would cry as McCarthy pushed for a switch to Porto and Co Adriaanse was another to have the displeasure of losing a prized possession. The trend went all the way to England, with Sam Allardyce having to fight off teams like Chelsea and Manchester United to hold on to McCarthy, eventually losing out to West Ham. At that time, McCarthy must have felt coaches were selfish and denying him his big break and at the moment, his players at Cape Town City may feel the same way. As a coach who is still trying to establish himself, McCarthy is finding the challenge of rebuilding Cape Town City after almost every transfer window since he joined a difficult task. “It sucks getting used to that (rebuilding all the time) when you know you have something great going and then its gone in the blink of an eye. We are an exceptionally hard working team,” McCarthy said. “We have a good chairman who always wants to keep the best players. Sometimes it is tough because big money comes. “I know that my players are on the radar of other teams,” he said. Other than relishing another battle with Gavin Hunt, this time in the Nedbank Cup, McCarthy is pumped up for the Cape Town derby with Ajax Cape Town on Saturday. The former prolific striker said he is excited by the way the derby is growing and that City have a better chance with him on their side. “It’s good for South African football that in most provinces we have two good teams who are rivals. Here in Jozi you have the Soweto giants with the ultimate derby that we have in the country (between Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates). Then you have the Tshwane Derby (between Mamelodi Sundowns and SuperSport United) which is fast growing with beautiful football and lots of goals,” McCarthy said. “You have the Free State derby (between Free State Stars and Bloemfontein Celtic). And then there is the Cape Derby, Ajax and us a newly formed team but fast becoming superior because you have the Mac Daddy (McCarthy). It’s good for South African football and for Cape Town as a whole, showcasing the good game of football with a lot of young players who are on display. It’s fantastic.” -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za