ANC Regional Secretary Vuyiso Tyhalisisu said the Party always held a view that corruption is in the veins of the DA-led council when Executive Mayor Patricia De Lille marshaled her troops from Independent Democrats. “She thought she would introduce clean governance but she was mistaken. Today she is found having her hands deep in corruption.” Tyhalisisus said the ANC still holds a firm view and is optimistic that De Lille, City Manager Achmat Ebrahim and Commissioner of Transport and Urban Development Authority Melissa Whitehead will be found guilty of the offenses and will be relieved of their duties when the investigation processes are concluded. “They must now face the almighty of the law and must vacate their positions of responsibility immediately,” he said. The ANC has also voiced its concern about the DA not firing De Lille. Tyhalisisu said the DA is refusing to make the information contained in the investigation report public, that implicates more DA officials and politicians. Meanwhile, UDM leader Bantu Holomisa compares the case of the DA in Cape Town with that on Nelson Mandela Bay, explaining that it confirms a pattern of deceit that makes a mockery of the DA’s claims to a better alternative for good governance. Holomisa said in the Nelson Mandela Bay the DA conspired to remove the UDM Deputy Executive Mayor Mongameli Bobani relying on a draft third-party report barren if any council. “They went ahead to eliminate the office of deputy mayor completely in order to silence any possible voice against DA baasskap, which cannot survive under any form of criticism or review.” He said the DA deceived councillors into believing that Bobani was crooked by referring to this “draft report” which was never shared with anyone outside of its conspiring cabal. Holomisa said on Friday De Lille refused to resign on grounds that she had already informed legal firm Bowman Gilfillan that the report into her alleged wrongdoing contained ‘factual inaccuracies’ and requested to be given a chance to tell her own side of the story. He further said the NMBMM council should have resolved the matter in the same way rather than investigated Bobani. -TNA Reporter    