SENZO Mchunu, who lost out in his bid to become ANC secretary-general, yesterday brushed off rumours of smoking the peace-pipe with national executive committee member and Water Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane. It is claimed Mokonyanerobbed Mchunu of a place in the ANC’s top six. The ruling party’s 54th elective conference saw Ace Magashule edge out Mchunu for the position of secretary general with 2 360 votes to Mchunu’s 2 336 votes. The result triggered rumours that Mokonyane had a hand in the crisis over “68 missing” votes that Mchunu’s supporters wanted to be added to his tally, in the hope of changing the outcome of the vote. While the ANC said that Mchunu would only have 15 out of the 68 missing ballots, which failed to suffice in bettering Magashulu in the vote, leaked messages surfaced on social media this week suggesting that Mokonyane visited Mchunu’s family home to apologise
for being behind the vote discrepancy. However Mchunu denied that such a meeting with Mokonyane took place. “I heard about it on social media and it’s something that does not exist. “They said that I talked with Nomvula and the whole story does not exist,” he said. Mokonyane, while dismissing the rumours of her rigging the secretarygeneral vote as “false”, also denied that she ever had any talks with Mchunu over the matter.
”I have not made any attempt to visit comrade Senzo Mchunu. Allegations that I was turned away from his residence are totally untrue,” she said. She vowed legal action against the alleged originator of the messages, who she identified as Ronnie McKenzie. “I have identified one Mr Ronnie McKenzie as the originator of the message that has been circulated on social media and in various WhatsApp groups,” she said. “I have instructed my lawyers to take legal action against him for the defamation of character that is contained in the allegations made,” she said. “It is evident that there are those among us who assume ownership of the Nasrec outcomes, yet it is the will of the delegates and a victory of the ANC,” she said. Mokonyane insisted that ANC members should direct their energies at forging unity in the party following the election of new leaders. “I remain a disciplined member of the ANC and it’s national executive committee as elected at the 54th national conference and I urge all ANC members to focus on the immediate tasks of rebuilding and uniting the ANC and not to peddle lies and malicious allegations in an attempt to tarnish fellow members and leaders.” At the ANC’s elective conference in Nasrec last month, Mokonyane denied allegations that she called for a recount on the secretary-general vote. “The above allegations are false and an attempt to create divisions in the ANC by those opposed to the unity that ANC branches and delegates have demonstrated in the election outcomes. “Allegations of manipulation of delegates by myself have been disproved. “At no point have I involved myself or participated in the work of the electoral commission and as such, allegations that I requested a recount are false and misleading,” Mokonyane said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za