KAIZER Chiefs coach Steve Komphela is excited by the arrival of three players at the club and feels they will help turn around Amakhosi’s fortunes. Chiefs have been active in the transfer window having signed striker Leonardo Castro from rivals Mamelodi Sundowns, attacking midfielder Siphelele Ntshangase from Baroka FC and Kabelo Mahlasela from Bloemfontein Celtic and it seems like they are not yet done. There is no doubt that these are quality signings and will help Chiefs in attack. Castro has proven to be a goal scorer at Sundowns and once he settles down at Amakhosi, he could be a key man. Ntshangase is a creative midfielder and it is someone Chiefs have been missing in the last few seasons. He will help create chances for the strikers as he is likely to play just behind the forwards, while Mahlasela is also intelligent and his runs will make a difference in attack. “Leo will help us with striking and getting goals where it is possible. Siphelele Ntshangase will help us in the midfield,” Komphela said after his side played to a goalless draw against SuperSport United in their opening match of the New Year at Mbombela Stadium on Saturday. “Kabelo Mahlasela is a good player and highly attacking. If you look back, most of the best players in the world they are all who are unbelievably dynamic and we have those kindz of players here. “Mahlasela will give you that dimension. Unfortunately, he got injured in the first session with us and we are expecting medical results when we go back to Johannesburg but by the look of things, it looks like a long-term injury.” With the three signings to add to what they already have on the team, Komphela believes the future of the club is bright as most of the players they have are still young. “Chiefs supporters expectations are always clear, they are highly ambitious and this club is about trophies. This is why it is difficult sometimes to bring in a new generation of Chiefs. But if we can master that, then you are guaranteed a minimum 10 years for those kids. “Let’s talk, for instance, of Nkosingiphile Ngcobo. He is 18 and if he can play until 30 we will have 12 years with him. Wiseman Meyiwa – minimum 10 years in him, Teenage Hadebe – 10 years in him. “So with these kids here, you are sitting comfortably 10 years with them and that helps you, but when you start with that you are going to face a lot of challenges so you need to be careful how you deal with that.”  -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za