AMERICAN company Viceroy Research came under attack by the Reserve Bank, local economists and Capitec Bank yesterday for “blatantly” forcing down the share price of Capitec Bank in a cynical money-making scheme. It was accused by economists of “shortselling” shares in Capitec and forcing down the share price by releasing a “research report” with alarming accusations. Capitec hit out at the report, saying: “We received a copy of the research report at 10am (yesterday) and at no time has Capitec Bank been approached by Viceroy for insight into our business. None of their allegations have been presented or discussed prior to their publication. The report is filled with factual errors and omissions.” Allegations by Viceroy which Capitec denies include that: • Capitec fabricated new loans and collections • Loans are granted to delinquent customers to repay existing loans • Capitec’s loan book is overstated • Court cases may result in a class action • There is a correlation between African Bank and Capitec Bank. “We assure our customers we are open for business and we welcome the statement from the Reserve Bank that we are solvent with adequate liquidity,” Capitec said yesterday. Viceroy is the same company that produced an explosive report on retailer Steinhoff that resulted in the company losing 85% of its value in a matter of days. Short-selling is where an investor sells shares before taking ownership of them. He sells them in advance at around the prevailing price in the hope that the price declines, so when he buys them back he pays less than he has already sold them for, therefore pocketing the difference. Shares in Capitec Holdings tumbled as much as 25% yesterday morning but later regained most of their value. As with Steinhoff, the sudden drop in Capitec’s share price has hit pensioners’ savings as the Public Investment Corporation holds 7% of Capitec. Viceroy is a three-man research team that identifies “short-selling opportunities in global public markets”, it says on its website. The Reserve Bank yesterday said Capitec was solvent, well capitalised and had adequate liquidity. “The bank meets all prudential requirements,” it said. Capitec has twice been named the best bank in the world. Leading local economists told The New Age yesterday that the Viceroy claims “sound suspicious”. “Viceroy is under suspicion as it is involved in short-selling shares,” they said. Azar Jammine, chief economist of Econometrix, said: “They find a target and rubbish the company so the share price comes down.” “They will then buy shares cheaply, having already found a buyer at a higher price and make huge profits. That is what they are trying to do with Capitec,” he said. Jammine said they had found a target with Capitec and taken a chance to make money. “The damage here is not only about the pensioners’ savings and the PIC but Capitec has millions of less sophisticated customers who could now be afraid of losing their money,” Jammine said, adding that this was why the Reserve Bank came to the defence of Capitec. Wayne McCurrie, senior portfolio manager of Ashburton Investments, agreed with Jammine. “They expose companies in a bid to bring the share price down. It is a common practice globally, it’s what they do for a living,” he said. McCurrie said he doubted that a criminal case could be made. Viceroy responded to Capitec’s comments in a tweet: “Viceroy is preparing a response to Capitec’s statement. A starting point will be how they claim we under-represent repayments in our estimates, yet do not clarify if they have extended new loans to repay old debt.” Capitec said it was not aware of any customers jumping ship. “Queues at ATMs may just be the end of month situation,” the bank said. bernards@thenewage.co.za