IT HAS been a while since three of the PSL’s biggest giants – Mamelodi Sundowns, Kaizer Chiefs and Orlando Pirates – were at the top of their game, all challenging for the league title. And with Cape Town City sandwiched between the traditional usual suspects, Chiefs coach Steve Komphela believes the biggest winner in this set-up is national team coach Stuart Baxter. In most seasons past, if Sundowns and Pirates were challenging for the title, Chiefs would be nowhere to be found, or if Chiefs and Sundowns were in the mix, Pirates would be straggling behind. As things stand, Sundowns are top of the log with 35 points after 19 games, with Pirates and Chiefs down in third and fourth on 30 points each. All three teams, along with second-placed Cape Town City, have been providing more players to the national team and all of them have a good chance of winning the league for their clubs. “The support the teams get affects the performance of the players. When you have Sundowns, Chiefs and Pirates at the top playing so well, the main beneficiary is the national game. “This gives an opportunity to Baxter to choose without having a lot of problems,” Komphela said. “If you go anywhere in the world, leagues are defined by a certain number of teams. “You go to the English Premier League, you find about six clubs fighting each other. “You go to Spain, there is a clear indication of who is top and the same should happen in South Africa in respect of the other teams. “Every time we have a strong presence of Sundowns, Chiefs and Pirates, the national team does well.” As it stands, Sundowns have Hlompho Kekana, Percy Tau, Oupa Manyisa, Tiyani Mabunda, Sibusiso Vilakazi, Themba Zwane, Motjeka Madisha, Tebogo Langerman and Aubrey Ngoma in and out of the national team. Those players have been at the heart of Sundowns’ title charge, while Chiefs’ Siphiwe Tshabalala recently made a return to Baxter’s national squad. His teammates Itumeleng Khune and Eric Mathoho have played for Bafana, while Pirates’ Abbubaker Mobara has appeared for Bafana, together with Thembinkosi Lorch, Mpho Makola, Lyle Foster and Gladwin Shitolo – just some of the players who Baxter will have a look at when he names his squad later this year. All the top clubs are expected to be even stronger by the end of this week as they will make their final signings before the transfer window closes on the last day of the month. -mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za