WHILE some of the world’s most powerful people and richest countries gathered in Davos, community members of Alexandra marched against the rise of inequality yesterday. They also came out in support of efforts to build an economy for ordinary working people, not the rich and powerful. According to an Oxfam report, 82% of all global wealth in the past year went to the top 1%, while the rest of humanity saw no increase. Manager of economic justice at Oxfam South Africa Thembinkosi Dlamini said the 1% continues to own more wealth than the rest. “Inequality is rising each day. Workers are frustrated, their salaries are not matching the cost of living. This is because of the growing gap between rich and poor which curtails any chances of property,” Dlamini said.He said that globally more men than women owned land, shares and other capital assets. Researcher and economist at the University of the Witwatersrand David Francis said the minimum wage must be increased. “South Africa cannot expect people to live on a minimum wage of R3 500 per month,” Francis said, arguing that such low wages impacted on the ability to access basic needs such as housing, medical care and education. Also at the march were Leonie van Wyk and Kelly Brickles who said they were dismissed for allegedly taking tips from customers and blamed their plight on gender and race inequalities. “The salary I was getting was already too little to support my family of eight. This situation is causing problems in my marriage,” Brickles said. Meme Makhaula from the Simunye Workers Forum said they dealt with issues affecting workers on a daily basis. “The one pressing issue is that of people earning below the expected minimum wage. Some workers earn R24 a day. “Furthermore, the issues of gender equality are prominent, where women are sometimes expected to exchange sex for a promotion or just a job,” Makhaula said. Social activist Sandile Mangena, from the Ekurhuleni Environmental Organisation, said the capitalist system benefited only a few and harmed many. “The discrimination and inequality is yet to continue because people do not speak out about their work issues. However, today is a good stepping stone to start these conversations with the Alexandra community,”Mangena said. The Oxfam report also showed that governments and international institutions needed to recognise the impact of the mainstream neoliberal economic model on the world’s poor and called for more humane economies that have greater equality as a primary aim. sisandam@thenewage.co.za -SISANDA MADWANTSI