SOUTH AFRICA took centre stage at the annual Grammy Awards in Madison Square Garden, New York City, on Sunday. In addition to the legendary iscathamiya group Black Mambazo’s continuing their long domination of the Grammy’s world music category after they clinched their fifth honour, South Africa’s viral dance routine gwara gwara dominated the Grammy stage and later the social media after R&B sensation Rihanna pulled off an amazing rendition of the dance craze as part of her Wild Thoughts performance alongside DJ Khalid and Bryson Tiller. Clad in a sparkling pink dress and silver heels, Rihanna was among the Grammys most talked about items as she showcased her ability to pull off the gwara gwara made popular by Durban-born DJ Bongz and has been showcased around the world in videos and performances by stars such as US producer Swizz Beatz and Chris Brown following their visits here at home. Joining multitudes of South Africans who could not contain their excitement as they witness their culture dominate world music’s biggest night, an ecstatic DJ Bongz told The New Age that he was happy to see the dance move become a global phenomenon. “It is really great to see this dance move that I came up with in 2015 continuing to spread globally, I am happy to see an artist as big as Rihanna incorporating it in her performances at one of the world’s biggest music events,” he said. Many South Africans will remember the media storm that erupted two years ago when the Ofana Nawe hitmaker released a new range of caps named Gwaragwara, which were priced at a whopping R800 each. Although the hefty price tag created a storm back then, it would seem many are willing to forgive him now that it has inspired a global dance craze. “I am ready to buy that R800 gwara gwara cap DJ Bongz tried to sell us at one point…You don’t create a dance move and have one of the world’s most popular pop stars debut it on the biggest music show worldwide and remain average,” @XolanWaleKenhuk said. Laughing off the matter, Bongz said: “Of course the caps will come back, now that people are recognising what I have been trying to push for the past three years, this dance move is still going to blow many people away.” The 60th Grammy Awards saw some of the night’s biggest winners such as rapper Kendrick Lamar walking away with five awards while R&B superstar Bruno Mars clinched seven awards. The 2018 Grammy stage also provided a profound moment for SA as the late jazz icon and activist Hugh Masekela was among those who were remembered during a special memorial segment. The two-time Grammy winner was laid to rest yesterday at a private funeral service at Westpark cemetery in Johannesburg following a series of public memorial services at the weekend. -nontokozog@thenewage.co.za