IT MAY be the language, the accent or his conviction when talking football, but Orlando Pirates coach Milutin Sredojevic sounds like a man on a mission. If he was running for presidency, then something about his comments would make him presidential. At the moment, the coach, who has a huge resemblance to Transporter 2 star Robert Knepper, looks like a superstar on the Pirates bench. Not only has he, along with  orchestrated the impressive 3-1 win over Mamelodi Sundowns at Loftus Versfeld, courtesy of goals by Ntsikelelo Nyauza, Mpho Makola and Luvuyo Memela, Micho as he is affectionately known, has Pirates playing with swagger and pomp. And this is from players like Luvuyo Memela, Gladwin Shitolo and Thabiso Kutumela, who have not really shone with previous Pirates coaches, as well as imposing Zambian forward Justin Shonga. While this kind of win against Sundowns may easily intoxicate some coaches into thinking they can win the league, especially if they are now fifth on the log with 26 points, Micho has chosen to keep his feet rooted firmly on the ground, even though he does see his side as worthy of lifting the title. “I would like to think we are far from being title contenders. But being title contending material, yes, we are,” Sredojevic said. “We will work really hard so that all the pain that has been with our supporters goes away. We will go the extra mile in stretching ourselves. “We will do our best, but how far we reach is something that we shall see. I don’t threaten and make promises. Football is unpredictable and tricky. We want to go in the direction (of fighting for trophies).” Micho has also had to explain one of the transfer window’s big questions regarding his deputy captain Abbubaker Mobara, who is thought to be on his way to Bidvest Wits in a swap deal with Xola Mlambo. The Pirates coach refused to shed more light on the former Ajax Cape Town man, further fuelling speculation that the Bafana Bafana man could be on his way out of the Sea Robbers’ improving ship. “He is our deputy captain and he is important to us. But the rest of the things, I will not comment because my full focus is on the field of play (and not in the boardroom),” the Pirates coach said. The Buccaneers, who are equal on 26 points with fourth placed rivals Kaizer Chiefs will next host Polokwane City at Orlando Stadium on Saturday. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za