SASCOC has named the South African team that will represent the country at the 2018 Gold Coast Commonwealth Games in Australia between April 4-­15. South Africa will be represented by 16 sporting codes namely athletics, badminton, bowls, boxing, cycling (mountain bike, road, track), gymnastics, hockey, netball, rugby sevens, shooting, table tennis, triathlon, weightlifting and wrestling, para-sports athletics, lawn bowls, swimming, table tennis and powerlifting. Trio Olympics gold medallist Caster Semenya, silver medallists Cameron van der Burgh and Chad le Clos, field athletes Luvo Manyonga and Sunette Viljoen and bronze medallists Henri Schoeman (triathlon) and the men’s rugby sevens side. The men’s sevens rugby team will only be announced at the end of February. Other sports team will see women’s rugby sevens, men’s and women’s hockey sides and the women’s netballers in action while there are also team disciplines in track cycling and triathlon. Aquatics is the biggest code with 28 members (23 swimmers, three divers and two para-­- swimmers) followed by Athletics and cycling which both feature 18 members. SASCOC President Gideon Sam says they are happy with the team that will be representing the country as many hours of planning have gone into preparing the team. “Two years out from the Tokyo Olympics, these Games are a great platform to see where our sportsmen and women, both established and developing, are on the world stage. “You will see that it’s a great blend of experience and raw talent and I’m confident we’ll once again be right up there with the cream of Commonwealth countries and looking to improve on our seventh place on the medals table in Glasgow four years ago.” “I Sam Urged the athlete to go to Australia and be the very best athlete they can be and fly the rainbow nation’s flag high,” he said. Acting CEO Patience Shikwambana also wished the team well and said she believes the team is strong and comprises of stars who have excelled exceptionally on the international arena including at renowned events like the Olympics, Paralympics and previous Commonwealth Games. “It is my hope that the team improves on the medal count South Africa achieved in Glasgow in2014 so that we continue to progress in our performances and build a stronger brand on the international front,’ Shikwambana concluded,” Shikwambana said. Team SA for Gold Coast Commonwealth Games: AQUATICS Swimming Women: Erin Gallagher, Tatjana Schoenmaker, Dune Coetzee, Kate Beavon, Kaylene Corbett, Emily Visagie, Marlies Ross, Nathania van Niekerk, Kristin Bellingan, Mariella Venter and Emma Chelius Men: Ayrton Sweeney, Cameron van der Burgh, Chad le Clos, Jarryd Baxter, Brad Tandy, BrentSzurdoki, Martin Binedell, Ryan Coetzee, Eben Vorster, Luan Grobbelaar, Calvyn Justus and Michael Houlie. Para-­-swimming: Christian Sadie, Kaleb van der Merwe Diving: Nicole Gillis, Micaela Bouter, Julia Vincent ATHLETICS Women: Caster Semenya, Sunette Viljoen and Wenda Nel. Men: Akani Simbine, Antonio Alkana, Constant Pretorius, LJ van Zyl, Lebogang Shange, Wayne Snyman, Luvo Manyonga, Ruswahl Samaai, Phil-­Mar Janse van Rensburg and Breyton Poole. Para-athletics: Women -­ Juanelie Meijer Men: Ndodomzi Ntutu, Hilton Langenhoven, Dyan Buis, Charl du Toit, Union Sekailwe, ReinhardtHamman and Juanre Jenkinson BADMINTON Women: Elsie de Villiers, Johanita Scholtz and Michelle Butler-­-Emmett Men: Bongani von Bodenstein, Cameron Coetzer and Prakash Vijayanath BOXING Siyabulela Mphongoshi and Sinethemba Blom. CYCLING Road: Women -­ Ashleigh Moolman Pasio Men: Willie Smit, Nicholas Dlamini, Clint Hendricks and Brendon Davids Track: Women – Charlene du Preez, Elfriede Wolfaardt, Ilze Bole, Danielle van Niekerk and AdeliaNeethling Men: Steven van Heerden, Nolan Hoffmann, David Maree, Joshua van Wyk andGert Fouchè Mountain biking: Women -­ Mariske Strauss and Cherie Redecker Men: Alan Hatherly HOCKEY Men’s team: Gowan Jones, Siyavuya Nolutshungu, Daniel Bell, Jethro Eustice, Gareth Heyns, TysonDlungwana, Austin Smith, Daniel Sibbald, Timothy Drummond, Reza Rosenburg, Ryan Julius, Owen Mvimbi, Clinton Panther, Nqobile Ntuli, Abdud Dayaan Cassiem, Keenan Horne, Tevin Kok and Ryan Crowe. Women’s team: Phumelela Mbande, Nicole la Fleur, Erin Hunter, Nicole Walraven, Lisa-­MarieDeetlefs, Celia Evans, Nicolene Terblanche, Shelley Jones, Quanita Bobbs, Kristen Paton, Ilse Davids, Stephanie Baxter, Ongeziwe Mali, Dirkie Chamberlain, Candice Manuel, Sulette Damons, Jade Mayne and Bernadette Coston. LAWN BOWLS Women: Elma Davis, Esme Kruger, Nicolene Neal, Colleen Piketh and Johanna Snyman Men: Gerald Baker, Petrus Breitenbach, Jason Evans, Josephus Jacobs and Morgan Muvhango PARA-­LAWN BOWLS Women: Princess Schroeder Director: Annatjie van Rooyen Men: Tobias Botha, Willem Viljoen, Christopher Patton and Philippus Walker Director: Graham Ward NETBALL Bongiwe Msomi, Karla Pretorius, Erin Burger, Izette Griesel, Maryka Holtzhausen, Danelle Lochner, Phumza Maweni, Precious Mthembu, Shadine van der Merwe, Ine-­Mari Venter, Zanele Vimbela and Lenize Potgieter RUGBY SEVENS Men’s team: To be announced end of February Women’s team: Nadine Roos, Eloise Webb, Unathi Mali, Rights Mkhari, Zintle Mpupha, VeroeshkaGrain, Zenay Jordaan, Marithy Pienaar, Mathrin Simmers, Christelene Steinhobel, Chane Stadler and Zinthle Ndawonde SHOOTING Bartholomeus Pienaar, Pierre Basson, Arno Haasbroek and Andre du Toit. TRIATHLON Women: Gillian Sanders and Simone Ackermann. Men: Richard Murray, Henri Schoeman and Wian Sullwald. WEIGHTLIFTING Johanni Taljaard, Mona Pretorius and Celestie Engelbrecht WRESTLING Jan Louwrens Combrinck, Terry van Rensburg, Johannes Botha, Michael Gaitskill and Martin Erasmus. PARA-­POWERLIFTING Ricardo Fitzpatrick PARA-TABLE TENNIS Theo Cogill -TNA Reporter    