THE only thing Mamelodi Sundowns have to show for their last two PSL matches is a point lead at the top of the log. And that is not enough, winger George Lebese says. The Brazilians have lost their last two league matches, with Polokwane City the latest to inflict defeat on Pitso Mosimane’s side. It was the usual suspect, Rodney Ramagalela, who scored a stunning half volley to help Rise and Shine edge out Sundowns 3-2 in a thriller at the Peter Mokaba Stadium on Saturday afternoon. Ramagalela, who looks like a man desperate to prove a point to Mosimane and to Sundowns for not giving him a chance, scored the goal that ensured Lebese’s early strike in the first half meant nothing. That result now means Sundowns, who lost to Cape Town City in their last outing of 2017, only have a point more than City at the top, though they enjoy a match advantage. The Brazilians may still restore their four point lead at the top against Ajax Cape Town tomorrow night and Lebese feels that match is their “game in hand”. “It felt good to play and be on the score sheet, but unfortunately we lost. So for me, the fact that I scored counts for nothing. “Playing was good for my confidence. I tried to help the team to win, but it just didn’t work out. After the chances we missed, we saw the loss coming. The coach spoke about the missed chances at half time,” Lebese said. “We can see by his body language that he is not happy. We will have to sit and analyse the game and try to improve. “The coach does not shout at us, but he will show us our mistakes and help us improve. We want to win the league and results like this one are disappointing. But we want to win the league. “Our game in hand is against Ajax and we will need to win that one to get back on track.” The Brazilians will not have it easy against Muhsin Ertugral’s side that also lost their first match of 2018, going down 2-1 to Maritzburg United. One of the biggest focal areas for Mosimane tomorrow will be to get the centre-back combination of Motjeka Madisha and Ricardo Nascimento going, while also hoping that Thapelo Morena will be back to full fitness now that Anele Ngcongca is out with an injury. There is also Siyanda Zwane who can fill the right back berth against the Urban Warriors who have the deadly Tendai Ndoro in their ranks.  -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za