CONDEMNATION continues to swell over the EFF’s call to prospective students to flock to higher education institutions across the country for “walk-in registrations” amid mounting fears of chaos breaking out on campuses. The African Democratic Change (ADC), led by former ANC MP Makhosi Khoza, joined the chorus of criticism against the EFF for making “political football” out of the Presidency’s announcement that the government will fund free higher education for students
from poor households. The party said that in light of the 2012 University of Johannesburg (UJ) stampede that left a female student crushed to death and 17 others injured, the EFF’s call was a real cause for concern. “We reject the call by the EFF that all matriculants who qualify for admission must go to register at the university of their choice,” the ADC said. “This is a populist call by the EFF, it is misleading and reckless and does not consider the detriment such a call could lead to. “The call by the EFF is disingenuous and is not necessarily people-centred.” The party went further and accused the EFF for using the emotive debate on fee-free higher education to gain political mileage in a bid to to boost their party’s own image. “This however, is understandable given that their identity was formed around removing one man from office, it is indeed desperate times. Young people must not take this call seriously and must ignore the EFF,” the ADC said. The ADC’s comments come as the quandary about whether the president’s announcement made last month would be able to be carried out by the state. Retired judge Jonathan Heher, who headed the fees commission, said that the state did not have the capacity to carry out the mammoth task. However, the ADC said that while it welcomed Zuma’s call, it called on the Departments of Finance and Higher Education to outline how the task could be achieved. “We call on the Department of Finance and Higher Education to speedily outline how free education will be implemented and how prospective students can make use of it going for
registrations.” Young Communist League (YCL) national chairperson Yershen Pillay echoed the ADC’s sentiments on the EFF’s handling of the matter. “We condemn any form of chaos and attempts to create a state of anarchy that would run down universities across the country. “It’s self-defeating. Any attempts to render our universities’ powers to the extent that they become a political football must be condemned,” Pillay said bonolos@thenewage.co.za