The DA in Limpopo says it has written to the education MEC requesting that he ask his transport counterpart to provide free bus tokens to all pupils who will be writing their supplementary exams later this month. The party said it had asked requested that Ishmael Kgetjepe liaise with Makoma Makhurupetje over the provision of free transport to students who live more than five kilometres from their school, as per the education policy. DA provincial spokesperson for education Jacques Smalle said 42 centres across the province had been identified as examination centres for the possible 44 328 learners who did not write the final matric exams. According to Smalle, pupils are however responsible for paying for their own transport to and from the centres. He said this presented a challenge as most pupils came from impoverished households where the families had no source of income. “The DA is concerned that the education department did not have the foresight to organise scholar transport for those who cannot afford to pay transport fees on a daily basis to write these crucial supplementary exams,” Smalle said. Limpopo education department spokesperson Sam Makondo said they were surprised by the DA’s accusations, as no changes in venue would be taking place. Makondo said students would be writing their supplementary exams at the same venue where they wrote their exams in November/December. He said the transport used to get to and from examination venues would be the same used  during the supplementary exams. “I am very surprised by this accusation because there is absolutely no change to how the students will be travelling. I don’t know where this accusation comes from because it is not true,” Makondo said. Smalle however said Kgetjepe must urgently engage with the transport department to intervene in this regard by authorising Great North Transport, an entity owned by the Limpopo Economic Development Agency, to transport the qualifying pupils to ensure they are able to write their supplementary exams. -TNA Reporter