Evidence presented by Gauteng MEC for Finance Barbara Creecy before the Life Esidimeni Arbitration hearings suggest that former Gauteng health MEC Qedani Mahlangu and officials that testified before her lied under oath. Creecy said the officials lied regarding the department’s finances and the reason for terminating the Life Esidimeni contract. Families of Life Esidimeni patients were this morning left shocked by Creecy’s testimony. This is after Creecy told the tribunal that there was no instruction to the Gauteng department to cut health services. Mahlangu, Dr Barney Selebano and Dr Makgabo Manamela testified that the reason for the termination was due to financial constraints at the department. “The Treasury has never demanded that department’s cut any core services,” Creecy said. Her testimony is in contradiction to those of former Gauteng health MEC Mahlangu and officials who testified that the Life Esidimeni contract was terminated due to financial constraints and that they were requested by the Treasury to cut costs. Creecy presented evidence which showed that in fact between 2014/15 to 2015/16 financial year the health budget had in fact increased. The budget increased from 31.4 billion to 34.1 billion. “Since then it has been increasing till now,” she said. Creecy says as per Treasury guidelines there’s never been an instruction to cut core services and the pressure was to cut noncore expenses such as catering events, debits and credit cards among others. “The provincial government has never reduced the budget for mental health services.” Creecy further testified that the department underspends millions since 2015. She added that she still doesn’t understand why the contract was terminated as the money was there. Evidence shows that the department underspends on mental health. She testified that in 2012 then Premier Nomusa Mokonyane placed the department under administration. “During the period the department was under administration from 2013 to May 2015 the department had financial accruals amounting to 4.5 billion due to problems which started in 2009/10,” she said. Creecy told the tribunal that they managed to turn the situation around without cutting on core services and that the problem was due to monetary mismanagement. 143 psychiatric patients died after they were moved form Life Esidimeni into unlicensed and ill-equipped NGOs. This comes after the department terminated its long-running contract with Life Esidimeni. Her testimony continues. -Leratod@thenewage.co.za 