ORLANDO Pirates coach Milutin Sredojevic feels his side are still far from where he wants them to be despite recording their biggest victory of the season against Baroka FC at Orlando Stadium on Saturday. The Buccaneers were impressive as they beat Baroka 3-1 to start the New Year on a positive note. This was also the first time this season that they managed to score three goals in a game after a brace from Luvuyo Memela and the other by Musa Nyatama. Only twice this season have they managed to score two goals in a match and that was against Polokwane City in the Absa Premiership and in the Telkom Knockout. Their main problem has been failing to convert the chances they create. But having scored three on Saturday in the first 30 minutes, Sredojevic feels they should have been up in the log standings had they converted some of the chances they created and won matches which ended in draws, as a result od poor finishing. “If our conversion rate was better in so many matches, we were going to finish like this. We had eight draws and we said before the match of those, six were supposed to be sitters for us to win,” Sredojevic said. “Then we would be talking a different story. However, whatever was wrong we could not cry. We went into the break disappointed but we went to refresh ourselves physically and mentally. “We started on December 27, working hard and preparing for the New Year having a good working week and that got us to this win.” Sredojevic was pleased with his side’s performance in the first 30 minutes but believes that they took the foot off the pedal after scoring three quick goals, something he needs to work on ahead of their game against Mamelodi Sundowns at Loftus Versfeld on Saturday. “For the first 30 minutes we started like house on fire. Once again it showed that it’s a critical phase. When you score a goal you need to keep your concentration for two to three minutes because when we scored the third goal not more than a minute later we conceded a penalty against the run of play. “This brought us back to the situation where we have not been so adventurous after scoring. We want to be happy and we want to play well and get results and someone will pay for our misses. Still, we are far from where we are supposed to be. “But the journey of 15 miles to the end of the season is starting with good steps. Now this is history and we are going to assess the situation and upgrade what was not good to correct ahead of our match against Sundowns.”  -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za