THE EFF is planning to occupy municipal land in a prime part of Stellenbosch, one of the oldest towns in SA and also home of the university that once served as the intellectual bastion of apartheid. EFF Western Cape leader Bernard Joseph said the occupation is scheduled for later this month. Joseph said the identified land could house 30 to 50 families. Tomorrow the Western Cape leadership of the party plans to take a group of people to the site earmarked for occupation to “give them a sense of what it is like to have a picnic” in a leafy area, he said. “We will take our people to a piece of property to own. We want to occupy that land before the end of January,” he said. The EFF has also identified other public spaces for future occupation in the DA-held Boland town, which houses mostly middle-class and rich residents, and is best known for its vineyards, wine culture and love of rugby. “We are tired of living outside town while there are many open spaces that our people can use. We want to live in Stellenbosch, among the townspeople, the people who stole our land,” Joseph said. He said he had recently visited Cloetesville, a black township near Stellenbosch – and was shocked by its living conditions. Some people slept in their bathrooms while others also used their toilets as sleeping quarters, he said. “These are the things that drive us. People are living in conditions that strip them of their human dignity. If we don’t address these problems we would have failed as the EFF.” Joseph said the party was determined to carry out its action tomorrow. “Even if we are jailed, we will continue to make our point until we have achieved what we’ve set out to do. Our people must not be afraid, we will get legal assistance for those who are locked up.” Radical transformation, he said, demanded that people should live in conditions that would give them an opportunity to reach their full potential. “That is radical transformation. Right now our people don’t have any chances of getting out.”  -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN|dennisc@thenewage.co.za