EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi says for years, students have suffered and some died in pursuit of education in the country of their birth. This comes after Capricorn TVET College students were injured during a stampede at in Seshego early this morning. Six prospective students were injured and one of them critical. According to Limpopo police spokesperson Motlafela Mojapelo, all students were taken to Polokwane Provincial Hospital where they were treated and discharged. Ndlozi said the successive generations of anti-apartheid student activists have already suffered many injuries and loss of lives paying sacrifice for the education of an African child to have access to quality education in the country of their birth. “We call on all colleges to ensure order on the long lines of education-hungry youths. We call on them to apply basic crowd control mechanisms like barricades, marshals etc.” He said the EFF is, however, celebrating the fact that the country has a problem of education-hungry youth and scores of young people who are staying on the lines for days knocking on the doors of learning. “As the EFF, we admit that this is indeed a problem, but it is problem that the country must be eternally proud of instead of dealing with scores of youth dying on the lines of beer halls and drugs. “As a matter of fact, many die in our county on the loitering streets of drugs and alcohol abuse.” Ndlozi added that the records of history will show that it was the EFF that led students in scores and scores not only to the economic freedom marches but also to institutions of higher learning to earn an education. “Let us all volunteer in giving them support; let there be water, shade, shelter and food on the long lines of the education-hungry youth, lining up to simply knock at the doors of education institutions.” Meanwhile, Mojapelo said in a separate development at the Capricorn TVET College, Limpopo police said they are looking for a car and a driver who ran over students as they dispersed from the college. -TNA Reporter  