SOUTH Africans have been urged to keep hydrated to avoid cases of heatstroke due to the latest heat wave. People in certain parts of the country will have to endure one more day of the heat following predictions that tomorrow will be cooler. Today is the last day of the hot weather that hit most parts of the country over the weekend with extreme temperatures of up to 40°C in some parts of the country. The South African Weather Service said a heatwave with persistently high temperatures was expected in the North West, the Free State and the extreme eastern parts of the Northern Cape until today. Forecaster Lulama Theme said that the heatwave would go on throughout the day today but it will cool off from midday and there will be is an improvement as a cold front moves in. “Today the heatwave will affect the northern parts of the Northern Cape and some parts of the Free State. There are areas that have had extremely hot conditions. Temperatures were up to 40°C in some parts of Limpopo and the North West province,” Theme said. Extremely hot conditions are expected in the Western Bushveld and Limpopo Valley throughout the day. The weather service has advised citizens to stay indoors in a cool room near a fan if possible and the old and infirm to stay cool and hydrated. “Avoid strenuous outdoor activities, playing excessive sport and hard labour. Dress in lightweight clothes and drink plenty of liquids and not alcohol,” it said. In the North-West, temperatures soared drastically on Sunday prompting health MEC Dr Magome Masike to issue a warning. “The prevailing weather patterns are a worry to us because the department will be affected should there be any cases of heatstroke. “It is for this reason that we ask our people to take care and prevent any unfavourable outcomes,” he said. Masike said high temperatures resulting in too much heat are a serious threat to life. “Heatstroke is the most serious form of heat injury and is considered a medical emergency. Heatstroke can kill or cause damage to the brain and other internal organs. “It is for this reason that individuals and households are advised to avoid walking and working in the sun, wear lightweight, light-coloured, loose-fitting clothing and wide-brimmed hats and use a sunscreen with a sun protection factor (SPF) of 30 or more,” he said. The MEC also called on residents to take in plenty of fluids especially water to prevent dehydration. “It’s generally recommended to drink at least eight glasses of water, fruit juice or vegetable juice per day. “Because heat-related illness also can result from salt depletion, it may be advisable to substitute an electrolyte-rich sports drink for water during periods of extreme heat and humidity,” he said. For those exercising or working outdoors, Masike urged them to take additional precautions. DIKELEDI MOLOBELA and ELFAS TORERAI news@thenewage.co.za