ANC deputy secretary general Jessie Duarte has expressed concern over MultiChoice’s decision not to renew ANN7’s contract when it ends in August 2018. MultiChoice made the announcement on Wednesday that it will be taking off the station on its DStv bouquet come end of August. “The problem that I am facing right now is that when you listen to the MultiChoice CEO speaking, he said there were mistakes made in the dealings but no corruption… so what is the problem here exactly,” said Duarte. “I think what MultiChoice is doing is that they are removing diversity from the platform of news in our country. What is even more disappointing is the statement made by our Minister of Communication who says she is disappointed. Yes, but then says MultiChoice will bring in a new black partner to start a new platform. So one must ask the question is the black partner at ANN7 right now is not a probably not a good enough black partner? ” she added. People took to twitter to show their concern over MultiChoice’s decision.  Action needs to be taken against multichoice. Its high time we stand up against these white hooligans. — stephan maluku (@stephan_77348) January 31, 2018 #Multichoice is ready to fund another black own media news channel while failing to uplift the already existing black own @ANN7tv — Mzilikazi KaMashoban (@Xolani619) January 31, 2018 The monopolisic, colonial and Apartheid banning of ANN7 is unlawful and unconstitutional and must be firmly rejected by our Constitutional court and all democratic minded South Africans because it shuts down a different voice and throw thousands into the streets ..! — Tony tornado Yengeni (@tyengeni1954) January 31, 2018 @ANN7tv is the best 24hour news platform, they are being silenced for being a voice of our people. @MYANC this move is utter nonsense. — Ntombi Monty (@monty_ntombi) January 31, 2018 Afrikaaners have their #Kyknet but they won’t allow us to have our @ANN7tv clever blacks and whites have their @eNCA please #HandsOffANN7 — andile (@Mngxitama) January 31, 2018