Violence broke out again on the second day of demonstrations at Hoërskool Overvaal, with 16 people who were mostly pupils of other schools and members of the Congress of South African Students (Cosas), being arrested after they threw a petrol bomb at a police van. SAPS spokesperson Capt Lungelo Dlamini said the protesters would be charged with public violence as well as contravention of the Explosives Act. “They will appear in the Vereeniging Magistrate’s Court on Friday,” he said. Dlamini said they would deploy more police officers at the school until they were satisfied that the situation was back to normal. Pandemonium broke out as protesters ran amok trying to avoid rubber bullets fired by the police. Cosas member Hope Mcena said he saw flames on the police van. “I was sitting and I heard something go off and then the van was on fire,” Mcena said. Mcena said he got up and ran away when he saw the police approaching and firing rubber bullets. The Grade 10 pupil from Sharpeville township said he was terrified as it was the first time he had joined a protest. He told The New Age that he thought it would be safe for him to participate in the demonstrations. “I’m scared to march because of the actions of the police,” he said. The Cosas pupils were taken to the Vereeniging police station in a police nyala and a police van that were stationed outside the school. An EFF member, who was also part of the violent protests outside the Afrikaans school demonstrating against its language policy on Wednesday, said the police action was unfortunate as it seemed as if white people were being protected while the black demonstrators were shot at with rubber bullets with impunity. Earlier in the day, the commissioner of the South African Human Rights Commission responsible for basic education, André Hurtley Gaum, said they were concerned because both the right to protest peacefully and the child’s right to education were at stake. “I’ve just had a meeting with the principal and conveyed the message that he needed to respect the right to demonstrate by the demonstrators,” he said. He said there needed to be a national conversation on language rights and how that would impact on other constitutional rights. White parents and community members did not want to talk to the media as they believed the publicity of the protests was causing unwarranted attention. hlonim@thenewage.co.za