The Chinese astrological calendar says 2018 is the Year of the Dog. Many of the spiritual masters of this zodiacal reading of global patterns and purpose predict this year will be a time of transformation and turbulence and have said action is the necessary code word for success in the trying year ahead. South Africa last year was largely captured in the snarl of an unremittingly rabid bark of disturbance rather than an incisor of the deed. Last year was one of political inertia, characterised by the easy-speak of ANC sloganeering and its factional wails ahead of its December electoral conference. The largely toothless, ideological bite of the opposition, and their lurch of disordered political play, turned the opposition benches of Parliament into a lost-and-yet-to-be-found pound of once highly pedigreed politicians. The stray of civil society organisations choked much-needed progressive socio-economic activity rather than giving it any real gait. So what awaits us in 2018? With the super-charging of politicking ahead of the general election next year, political action rather than listlessness will increasingly become the saliva of political campaigning. There is some promise of true radical traction on this year’s South African skyline. There was an unmistakable reverberation at the ANC’s December electoral conference for an accelerated economic transformation programme. It was an encouraging sign in the backdrop of a post-apartheid paradigm where the economic muscle of whiteness has tried to muzzle out the vocabulary of radical economic transformation. This year has been declared as the Year of Nelson Mandela by the ANC. I don’t subscribe to the one-dimensional version of Mandela as a lapdog of white interests. While his revolutionary bite may have been tamed somewhat in the lassitude of the harsh political terrain and discourse of his time, his radical standing on key socio-economic issues has also been masterfully trained out of the historical telling of the Mandela legacy, and its force-feed of him as the deity of reconciliation expropriates his earlier political evolution and contribution. In an incisive ideological thought piece, entitled the Trivialisation of Mandela’s Legacy,
Prof Sipho Seepe said: “It is human nature to compartmentalise the history of those we hold in high regard. We airbrush out the inconvenient parts to highlight those aspects that serve our interests.” Seepe says: “We owe it to him (Mandela) and those who sacrifice their lives, not to distort our history by reading it fragmentary.” In his analysis, Seepe asks: “How should Mandela be remembered? Who sets the agenda for such remembrance? In celebrating Mandela’s life, which issues get foregrounded and whose interests are being served?” Seepe reminds us that Mandela was a fighter against white supremacy and racism, that he opposed land dispossession of African people and that he fought against structural inequality and economic exploitation of African people in the country of their birth. In Mandela’s statement from the dock at the opening of the defence’s case at the Rivonia treason trial on April 20, 1964, he articulated a radical, politically problematic posture, which did not stray much from that of the radical economic transformation programme the ANC will champion in 2018 – a telling and sad indictment of the deficiencies in economic transformation in the post-apartheid age. In his address, Mandela spoke of the fight against “real and not imaginary hardships,” which he described as the “hallmarks of African life in South Africa”. Mandela spoke of “poverty and lack of human dignity” as the direct consequence of white supremacy. Mandela spoke of “the lack of human dignity experienced by Africans” as a direct result of the policy of white supremacy and the implied thesis of black inferiority. “When anything has to be carried or cleaned, the white man will look around for an African to do it for him, whether the African is employed by him or not. Because of this sort of attitude, whites tend to regard Africans as a separate breed,” Mandela said. If this year’s celebration of Mandela pivots around composite portraiture rather than contrived caricature, this commemoration can give a powerful boost to the ANC’s internal unity project and its broader radical economic transformation programme. The Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) has pronounced 2018 as the year of Robert Sobukwe. A marked celebration of the ideological clarity and precision of Sobukwe may help centre and engorge black consciousness, the alpha revolutionary roar of parties and organisations such as Azapo, APC, PAC and the BLF. I sincerely hope this will be the year in which the EFF discovers its true voice again, through a programme of political activity that marches to the beat of its very coherent and resonant original policy framework, rather than to the whistle calls of white monopoly capital and its praise singers. As for the DA – well, all I can say is that its inescapably, dog-tired racist yap will keep it in a cusp of inertia in perpetuity. And then there will be those in 2018 who will remain in political paralysis in the snare of their very own political and personal discontent. The Vavi-branded trade union, Saftu, has effectively declared this year as the year of disruption as it prepares for a national strike and major demonstrations. Saftu has promised to make protests “more militant and in some cases violent”. Premeditated and attention-seeking turbulence is hardly ever revolutionary action. The code word for South Africa during this year must be a radical change, which moves to the gait of the everyman, not the bait of political capture or personal political ambition. If a fundamental reconstruction of our society is not our collective resolution for 2018, our past will always haunt us. Kim Heller is a social commentator