SOME things in football, like the fact that when Leonardo Castro scores for Kaizer Chiefs that puts pressure on Mamelodi Sundowns striker Jeremy Brockie, do not have to be said out loud. This is because Brockie is supposed to be joining Sundowns as a more prolific and deadlier replacement for Castro, who was shipped by Sundowns to Chiefs. And after Castro scored a thunderbolt against Baroka to announce himself to Chiefs fans, the message also went out to Sundowns on what they have missed out on and whether Brockie is really an upgraded model of the Colombian. The only response the New Zealand marksman can give will have to be on Saturday at FNB Stadium where Chiefs and Sundowns will meet, with Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane already starting with the mind-games. While Brockie is itching to get off the mark for the side that he has been wanting to represent for a while now, the former SuperSport United man may be made to wait, with Mosimane contemplating employing “transition” football against Amakhosi. By his own admission, Mosimane said this will be something totally new for Sundowns, as they never sit back, but said the only thing he cannot afford will be to lose to Chiefs. “I don’t know if Jeremy can start because of how we might play. We will need to be smart and not all over the place. We will take it nice and easy. “They must also attack us. We may have to be conservative. Yes, why not? How many times have we played Chiefs and they had five defenders? We don’t want to lose at FNB. We might not win, but we are not going to lose,” Mosimane said. “Brockie is good in front of goals, but he is not a transitional player. This is a different game. I may want to use speed. Play on the counter-attack. “We will see how the game goes. We might unleash him. But they always have three centre-backs. It works for them. “Look at where they are on the log. It is nice to defend but I score more. I want goals. Yes, I am scared of Chiefs. They have signed good players,” he said with a quiet chuckle. He also revealed that the Brazilians could welcome Thapelo Morena and Anele Ngcongca back from injury, but hinted that Motjeka Madisha may retain the right-back berth against Chiefs after he did so well against Platinum Stars this past weekend. The last time the two teams met was at Loftus Versfeld in October, with Chiefs striker Bernard Parker scoring the winner to hand Steve Komphela the three points. -mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za