THE South African Democratic Teachers Union (Sadtu) believes the improved matric results from the class of 2017 are the sign of a gradually maturing education system. The union commended pupils and teachers for working hard to improve the matric results, which meant more of them obtaining their senior certificate. The class of 2016 obtained a pass rate of 72.5% and in 2017 the country recorded an overal 75.1% pass rate which shows a 2.6% increase. “We commend the pupils and the teachers for their dedication and hard work which ensured these results. Many of our members sacrificed their holidays and weekends preparing the pupils for these crucial examinations,” Sadtu said. The union’s spokesperson, Nomusa Cembi, said the union still reiterated its caution against the obsession with the matric pass rate. “It is indeed true that matric is the summation of 12 years of basic education schooling, but we cannot say it is the true indicator of the health of our education system judging by the huge numbers of pupils who fall by the wayside and never finish schooling. A total of 1.1 million pupils entered Grade 1 in 2006,” Cembi said. According to Sadtu 12 years later 798289 full and part-time pupils entered Grade 12 in 2017 and only about 543000 wrote the matric exams. With the number of progressed pupils who wrote examinations declining, the union called on the department to invest more resources and deploy more teachers to give support to these pupils. “We call upon the pupils who are going to exercise the multiple examination opportunities to go back to their schools and register for such programmes. “Pupils must ensure that where the department has made promises to assist them such are honoured 100%. More resources and in particular more teachers to assist these pupils must be made availed because basic education is a right that is not limited,” Cembi said. Meanwhile, Sadtu has also raised concern with the discourse on the question of free higher education. “As a union, we have always been at the forefront of the call for free quality public education, particularly for the poor and working class,” she said. “We have always conveyed our perspective for education to be a public good not only in theory but in practice as well. “Teachers and a prodigious majority of public servants have been classified as the missing middle when it comes to higher education access,” Cembi said. CHARLOTE HLANGWANE charloteh@thenewage.co.za