Gauteng police have launched a manhunt after a group of men shot at Longmeadow Sebenza Fedility security guards, killing one and injuring another in a botched cash heist yesterday. The incident happened early yesterday morning on the M54 road while the security guards were transporting money from their base at Longmeadow. “The driver with two crews were escorted by the deceased and injured guards. They were shot at by a group of unknown males driving unknown vehicles. Their vehicle stopped as a result of flat tires and the suspects held them at gunpoint them and took their pistols. The injured guard was taken to Union Hospital in Alberton. “The suspects bombed the security vehicle twice to access money but without success, they fled the scene with the guards’ firearms. No cash was taken and no arrests have been made,” Gauteng police spokesperson Capt Kay Makhubele said. Meanwhile, Johannesburg Central police arrested three people aged between 30 and 34 for a business burglary at Lillian Ngoyi Street on Monday night. Officers were doing routine crime prevention duties when they were stopped by a security guard who informed them about a business burglary at Maroc Distribution situated at Rahima Moosa Street. “Police saw men pushing a trolley. When they saw the police vehicle, they started to run and they were apprehended. A trolley full of rice was recovered. The men gained entrance by damaging the roller door. A crowbar, bolt cutter and hammer were recovered,” Johannesburg Central police spokesperson Capt Xoli Mbele said. He said investigations were under way and the suspects would appear soon in the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court. Meanwhile, a 35-year-old female was arrested for assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm at a tavern in the CBD. It is alleged that she stabbed her 28-year-old boyfriend with a broken bottle once in the upper body at the corner of Main and Polly streets. “The victim had an argument with the mother of his children, she hit him with a bottle in the forehead before she stabbed him. “An ambulance crew treated the man on the scene and the woman was arrested. The motive for the assault is not yet known. The couple has two children aged two and three.” The woman will appear in the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court soon. ntombin@thenewage.co.za