ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa and his predecessor, Jacob Zuma, are at opposite poles about the terms of reference of the judicial commission of inquiry into allegations of state capture. In an exclusive interview with The New Age at the weekend, Ramaphosa, fresh from succeeding Zuma, called for a case-specific probe, arguing that it would be incorrect to “collapse” the scope of former public protector Thuli Madonsela’s report amid recommendations into an inquiry that has extended beyond the limitations of her report. As speculation mounts that Zuma is on the brink of an early exit as head of state, Ramaphosa said that whichever course of action the ANC national executive committee (NEC) took, the ruling party would act in the best interests of the country, while sparing Zuma from a “humiliating” experience. “It is important that we should look at it as a given case of state capture. That has to be a separate process and we cannot collapse it into this process,” Ramaphosa said. “Imagine if you go back to 1652 or 1948, or 1994, you are going to be involved in a commission for the next five years,” Ramaphosa said. His approach on the inquiry’s terms of reference is in stark contrast to Zuma’s. Zuma announced on the eve of the ANC’s NEC meeting on Wednesday last week that he wanted the commission, which will be headed by deputy chief justice Raymond Zondo, to conduct its business with a much broader scope. Adding to the stalemate, public protector Busisiwe Mkhwebane also holds a different view to her predecessor, Thuli Madonsela. While Mkhwebane wants a broader probe that covers every aspect of state capture in a bid to ensure that no stone is “left unturned”, Madonsela told The New Age that Zuma was welcome to institute a separate probe that could track as far back as 1994. Regarding the political future of Zuma amid calls for his removal as state president, Ramaphosa asked for the ANC to be given space to deal with a sensitive matter that has seen the ANC and its alliance partners splinter upon the reefs of strife and division. “Whatever we do, however we do it and whenever we do it, the ANC must be given time and space to deal with matters of this nature,” he said. “I want it to be clear that we are not going to be doing anything that will seek to humiliate or disrespect the president.” This comes as Ramaphosa and ANC national chairperson Gwede Mantashe at the ANC’s 106th birthday celebrations this weekend had to intervene when crowds of party supporters repeatedly heckled Zuma throughout the event. He dismissed such conduct as a “deviant tendency”. “It is not correct. Whoever someone else does not approve of, whoever disagrees with myself or Zuma, can take it up with the structures of the ANC,” he said. Referring to the ANC’s policy programme on radical economic transformation, Ramaphosa said that big business that profited off the legacy of colonialism and apartheid had no other choice but to come to the table. He said that the ANC would not back down on its vision for the country’s economy. “I’m not expecting a backlash on the implementation of the resolutions of the ANC’s 54th national conference. We have to all accepct that apartheid was bad,” Ramaphosa said. “We don’t expect that those who pillaged and plundered will resist, they have to come to the table or risk losing out. If they resist, they will be rendered irrelevant,” Ramaphosa said. He said that the ANC was still intent on buying out the private share ownership of the SA Reserve Bank. “Central banks around the world are owned by the state, we want it to happen quickly,” he said. Ramaphosa added that the lack of gender parity in the ANC’s top six officials was a cause for concern. ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte is the only female leader elected alongside five men. “We have gone backwards, we would have liked to see two women in the top six, but this has not happened. We can’t do it mechanically by decree, we have to take it as a process of growth in the ANC.” Bonolo Selebano bonolos@thenewage.co.za