The Democratic Alliance(DA) says it will today write to the International Chamber of Commerce (ICC) to lodge an official complaint against H&M for the racist advert involving a black child modeling a racially-insensitive hoodie. DA spokesperson Refiloe Nt’sekhe says the DA is of the view that H&M’s racist advert is in violation of the ICC’s marketing guidelines. “In terms of Article 4 under subsection, general provisions on advertising and marketing communication practice of the ICC’s Code of Advertising and Marketing Communication Practice, members should at all times respect human dignity and should not incite or condone any form of discrimination, including that based upon race, in their marketing communication.” Last week, H&M ran an online advertisement where a black child was dressed in a green sweater written: “Coolest monkey in the jungle” on the chest. H&M was forced to close its South African stores after an advertisement of a black child wearing a hoodie with the inscription “coolest monkey in the jungle” caused violent protests https://t.co/dVAXIqv1Hb — The Times of London (@thetimes) January 15, 2018 The Swedish fashion maker has received backlash from South Africans and abroad. On Saturday, several H&M stores were vandalised in South Africa. Nt’sekhe says it is clear that H&M have violated the ICC’s code of advertising with their racially-discriminatory advert. “We, therefore, request that the ICC, as the foremost retail authority, fully investigate this incident and institute appropriate sanctions once an investigation has been completed.” She says the DA will also write to H&M South Africa to express their deep concern over this tasteless advert which evokes painful sentiments among black South Africans as well as the black community abroad. “H&M SA now has an obligation to register these concerns with their monitoring body as the fight against institutional racism is a fight everyone must all take on.” She condemned the vandalism of the H&M stores in several parts of the country by EFF supporters. “The DA strongly condemns the destruction of property and vandalism. The displays of violence at H&M stores across the country are totally unacceptable and violence is no way to fight racism but only compounds it.” -TNA Reporter 