BIDVEST Wits are in desperate need of a victory and whether it comes by hook or by crook they will take it, says coach Gavin Hunt. The reigning Absa Premiership champions are in the relegation zone and will sink deeper should they fail to collect points in the next coming matches. The Clever Boys are sitting at the bottom of the log with 11 points from 15 games and face SuperSport United tomorrow in a league match desperate for maximum points. Hunt feels he has been let down by the failure of players who include Daine Klate, Thulani Hlatshwayo, Elias Pelembe and Buhle Mkhwanazi to score goals this season. Klate and Pelembe have in the past seasons scored goals, while Hlatshwayo and Mkhwanazi netted 11 between them last season. “The problem is Klate hasn’t scored one goal this season and he normally gets eight a season,” Hunt said. “Tyson hasn’t scored one and he gets four or five a season. Buhle is four or five a season but hasn’t scored. Pelembe hasn’t scored one goal. “These are people who score goals for us and have been doing so for the last 10 years in the league. “That’s got to tell you something. Then in other areas, we haven’t had goals from anybody. “Daine is a bit older now. The game doesn’t stand still and neither does time. He had two chances in the first half against Free State Stars, one was an open goal and he could have headed it in, but he controlled it with his chest. “Those are the type of chances he has been scoring with all his life but not this season.” Hunt said they were nervous about their position on the log and will need to quickly get a few wins. They are two points behind 15th place Ajax Cape Town and a win tomorrow will see them move aheads. “Of course we are worried, we are upset, we are anxious, we want to get away from bottom spot. We know we are better than this. We need to win games by hook or by crook. “We need to get a few wins or a win. Four games here in a row and we have not scored a goal and in every game we should have won by plenty of goals but we need to score some goals. “That’s football and we need to score. “Games like this last year we should have won 5-1 but not now. “You can’t miss the chances we are missing and expect good results.”    -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za