SOCIAL Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini said she knew she could not have met the April 2017 deadline set by the Constitutional Court (ConCourt) – but that she never had the intention of continuing to work with Cash Paymaster Services (CPS). Following a report by the parliamentary advisory committee that her department would be able to find a new service provider by April last year, Dlamini appointed her own work stream team to assess the situation. She said her team had found that the advisory committee had been wrong. “The report by the advisory committee was somehow misleading because it stipulated that the (Concourt) recommendations would be adhered to by April 1, 2017,” Dlamini said. She said she failed to meet the deadline due to a lack of capacity and other issues within Sassa. In 2015, the ConCourt found that Sassa’s award to CPS of the social grant payment contract involving at least 17 million people, most of them children, had been irregular and declared the procurement process invalid. The case was brought to court by Absa bank, which lost the tender bid to CPS. The Concourt ordered that the tender be readvertised and a new service provider be appointed by April 2017. In the interim, CPS was to continue providing the service. However, the department failed to meet the deadline, leading to the matter going back to litigation and the court extending CPS’s contract with Sassa. Yesterday Dlamini appeared at an inquiry headed by retired judge Bernard Ngoepe where she had to explain why she shouldn’t be personally held liable for legal costs. She explained to the inquiry that the work stream team had several meetings in October and November 2016, which led to the decision to inform the Concourt about the challenges with meeting the deadline. “After realising that we won’t be able to meet the deadline, we wrote to the Concourt,” the minister said. “I had no interest for CPS to work beyond April 1, 2017,” she said. Dlamini conceded that even the South African Post Office, which has taken over as the service provider, was her preference. “The Post Office was one of my options but it could not take over at that time as it did not have the right capacity,” she said. The minister arrived at the inquiry with her own interpreter as she opted to conduct her testimony in Zulu, a decision received with mixed reactions from the public. The inquiry will resume this morning. regom@thenewage.co.za