PROTEAS batsman JP Duminy expects India to come out guns blazing in the first ODI match at Kingsmead Stadium in Durban tomorrow. Having lost the Test series 2-1 to the Proteas, Duminy believes India will be aggressive in the ODIs as they would not want to lose another series. “The key for us in this series is to start well. If we have a good game here in Kingsmead we will get confidence heading into the series which is different with six ODIs,” Duminy said. “We have to win at least four matches to guarantee the series. It’s going to be a hard-fought series, so it’s important for us to start well.” With the Proteas to be without star batsman AB de Villiers for the first three ODI due to a finger injury he sustained in the third Test, Duminy feels they still have enough power to be aggressive in their batting. Cricket South Africa confirmed yesterday that De Villiers will miss the first three matches but will likely to be available for the Pink ODI at the Wanderers on February 11. “There will be no difference. There is going to be an aggressive approach. Whether team selection is involved in the aggressive approach I’m not sure,” Duminy said. “But I think there are opportunities for guys specifically leading to the World Cup over the next 12 to 14 months. When you get an opportunity, you have to make sure you make the most of it. “There is no doubt that there will be an aggressive approach but we will see how we go about it.” Duminy, who has been in great form for his franchise Cape Cobras side said they will also approach the ODI with aggressive batting. “It’s a team make-up and what’s best suited for the team. For us, we tried to adapt to a more aggressive style of play and generally, most teams have tried to do that. “Hence we say 350 is not good enough to win you a match these days – you are not guaranteed. “So we need to understand which player’s role is and go about that role. There will be a lot of shifting and changes leading up to the World Cup so guys will want to understand their roles and their games. “They will also want to understand the brand of cricket we want to play going into the World Cup and it will be an interesting face not only for us but all teams.” -nevillek@thenewage.co.za