THE ANC Women’s League (ANCWL) was yesterday saved the embarrassment of its goods being auctioned off because of a substantial unpaid debt, it is claimed that has been carried over for the last two years. The sale of various items of fixed assets was halted minutes before the process was due to take place. While the ANC was putting its best foot forward in celebrating its 106 anniversary this week in East London, Eastern Cape, the ANCWL secretary general Meokgo Mathuba confirmed the threat of the auction taking place – without wanting to comment any further on the matter. When The New Age arrived at ANC’s headquarters at Luthuli House in the Johannesburg CBD, where the auction was set to take place, it was told that the auction had been “called off”. The Sheriff for Johannesburg Central, Marks Mangaba confirmed the auction was called off, without wanting to elaborate. According to media reports the ANCWL is drowning in debt to the amount of R6.3m, which it owes to a Sandton-based company, Atlantis Corporate Travel (ACT). The notice of the auction which was highlighted in the report said 250 desks, 600 chairs, 10 fridges and microwaves, among others were expected to be sold at the auction. Apparently, ACT had no other option but to approach the city sheriff in order to find recourse in the matter. This as the company still was making travel arrangements for ANCWL leaders, members and league officials. However, the league reportedly discontinued payments, forcing the company to approach the Johannesburg High Court which ordered the ANC as the mother body of the ANCWL to pay the debt. ACT’s legal department yesterday said, according to the letter of the law, the auction was not called off per se – as the sheriff still needs to issue a nulla bona certificate to them. “This certificate relates to when no one arrives at an auction or no bids are made for the property or goods to be sold. Basically, there was no agreement or debt settlement with the ANC,” ACT’s legal department said. A meeting regarding the debt between ACT and the ANC is yet to be scheduled, as this would be the next step. “The ANC did say to the sheriff they will make contact with us to schedule a meeting for next week,” ACT’s legal department said. -REFILWE MAGASHULE|refilwem@thenewage.co.za