NEWLY elected ANC chairperson Gwede Mantashe intervened as crowds of party supporters repeatedly booed President Jacob Zuma throughout the party’s 106th birthday celebrations today in East London. The rabid anger escalated as soon Zuma arrived on stage to sit among members of the ANC’s newly elected national executive commitee (NEC). A section of the 9000 seater stadium was again heard chanting, “we don’t want Zuma, we want Cyril” during ANC president Cyril Ramaphosa speech. At the end of Ramaphosa’s speech, Mantashe leaped to Zuma’s defense, and reprimanded ANC groups of supporters for their conduct. “We are not a party of boo-ers,” Mantashe was heard saying. Before Zuma’s arrival at Buffalo City stadium, where the event was held, crowds again booed Zuma as radio personality Putco Mafani named all 14 ANC presidents in chronological order. When he came to Zuma’s name, some party supporters did not shy away from expressing their dissatisfaction. Mantashe also said earlier that the ANC, Cosatu, SACP and Sanco should work towards restoring cordial relations among themselves. “Today marks a new beginning where the alliance speaks with one voice. Contradictory statements by our alliance partners cause confusion in society,” he said. ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule later downplayed the ruckus saying it came from a “few individuals”. Mantashe’s remarks comes amid rumours of an early exit for Zuma as head of state. Recent media reports have suggested that Zuma is preparing a list of demands linked to an exit package that would see among others Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma run as interim president until 2019. However, Magashule this week dismissed the report as “fake-news”. “There’s no substance to speculation and rumours of the former AU commission chairperson becoming ANC president,” he said. Speaking earlier, ANC Eastern Cape provincial chairperson Oscar Mabuyane said that the ANC should work towards restoring its image deficit with the electorate. “The ANC must become an incorruptible spokesperson of the masses, that is what the ANC should be,” he said. Bonolo Selebano bonolos@thenewage.co.za