ALMOST a week after the city of Tshwane pleaded with residents to conserve water, areas such as Mnandi in the south of Tshwane, are beginning to experience water supply interruption due to the low water level at the Mnandi reservoir which is presently sitting at 13.5%. The city of Tshwane has in the meantime arranged for a water tanker that will be stationed at 202 Lochner Road, Mnandi AH. Residents staying in high lying areas, who are mostly affected, will be supplied with water through the tanker. Lindela Mashigo from the city of Tshwane said: “The city had to shut down water supply from the reservoir in order to allow the reservoir to recover following the high water consumption in the area. Last week, the Tshwane metropolitan municipality pleaded with its residents and the business community to be serious-minded about conserving water.” The announcement from Rand Water warned that the abstraction of water from the Vaal Dam exceeds the allowable licence limit as determined by the National Department of Water and Sanitation. Rand Water began, as of last week Monday to place a limit to areas of its water supply (which are municipalities) in order to stay within the permissible existing water abstraction limit. “The restrictions are applicable throughout the city and are done to safeguard as well as ensure that there is a continued control and supply of water to all residents,” Mashigo said. He said consumers were urged to manage water in a far more effective and efficient way by adjusting the manner in which they utilise water. If this appeal is heeded, water-related interruptions will be minimised. “The water conservation measures that were implemented during the initial restrictions should become the norm. Residents are reminded that in terms of the partial restrictions that the city announced in May last year, they need to conserve water,” he said. Meanwhile, the Temba Water Purification Plant will be shut down from tomorrow at 8am to Thursday in order to carry out work which includes, bulk water connections/tie-ins, corrosion protection repairs on the bulk water supply system, welding repairs, removal of the temporary bypass water pipeline at the raw water pump station, installation of fittings on the bulk water supply. The following areas will be affected, Dilopye, New Eersterus, Temba, Babelegi Industries, Marokolong, Ramotse, Majaneng, Mandela Village, Sekampaneng and Hammanskraal. During the shutdown roaming, water tankers will supply residents with water. Tips to save water: • To continue to use grey water for watering gardens and flushing toilets • To report water leaks and burst pipes To install water-saving devices • Where possible, install a low-flow showerhead and tap aerators • Use a dual-flush toilet cistern • Try to plant indigenous or drought-resistant shrubs in the gardenTake a shower rather than a bath. kutullom@thenewage.co.za