THE ANC Veterans League (ANCVL) yesterday made a proposal that the ruling party’s new leaders convene a special consultative conference before the end of February. This comes in the face of a standoff between the ANC and its stalwarts over their call for a separate national consultative conference which saw the party’s seniors and veterans going at it alone last year. The ANC, ahead of its own national elective conference last year, distanced itself from the conference that was convened last November by the stalwarts and veterans who were signatories to the For the Sake of our Future document. The veterans have renewed their call for a consultative conference with league president Zikalala, insisting yesterday that the ANC’s new national executive committee (NEC) scheduled to meet for the first time next week, should convene the conference with haste in a bid to reflect on challenges plaguing the movement. “We urge the newly elected NEC to consider convening a special consultative conference to reflect on the political problems which gave rise to such unprecedented levels of factionalism and find solutions thereto,” Zikalala said. The ANCVL, which elected new leaders last October, were granted voting rights at the ruling party’s 54th national elective conference in Nasrec, Johannesburg, that saw Cyril Ramaphosa replace President Jacob Zuma as president of the ANC. Zikalala proposed that the special consultative conference be convened before the end of February and said that the league already had a list of items to place on the agenda of the conference. “We propose that the special consultative conference should take place no later than before the end of February,” Zikalala said. “As a veterans league we are ready to advance items for discussion in that conference. “We should make an effort to convince society that we can self-correct and are determined to deliver on our set objectives,” he said. He referred to the recent trend of ANC party members bypassing party dispute resolution mechanisms to seek relief through the courts. The trend escalated in the run-up to the ruling party’s elective conference. Zikalala argued that the practice was a cause for concern. “We continue to see smouldering disputes over the authenticity of our membership records which are alleged to be of factionalist manipulation. “The credibility of our internal dispute resolution mechanisms have fallen into disuse as members increasingly prefer to use courts as mechanisms of first instance,” Zikalala said. President Zuma said so himself in a scathing political report delivered at the ANC’s national conference. Zuma firmly instructed delegates to discuss the possibility of devising harsher measures against those guilty of “gradually eroding the authority of the ANC”, by running to the courts for redress. Zikalala decried the spate of alleged political killings in trouble-torn KwaZulu-Natal that have under the microscope of the Moerane Commission. “We remain mired in troubling times as shown by the ongoing work of the Moerane Commission which is investigating serious incidents of violent conflict in KwaZulu-Natal,” he said. He insisted that the veterans league was fully behind the new ANC executive committee led by Ramaphosa. “The new NEC, led by comrade Cyril Ramaphosa, can count on the support of the ANC Veterans League as it goes about building on the firm foundations of renewal established by the conference,” Zikalala said. BONOLO SELEBANO bonolos@thenewage.co.za