On Tuesday, 23 January 2018, the world woke up to the devastating news that jazz legend Hugh Masekela had died. Masekela, popularly known as Bra Hugh, passed away at a Johannesburg Hospital following a battle with prostate cancer. The well-travelled, supremely talented 78-year-old jazz trumpeter and vocalist was born on 4 April 1939 in Witbank. While he showed musical ability from a very young age and played the piano as a child, Bra Hugh was inspired to play the trumpet after watching a movie called Young Man with a Horn. He first played alongside aspiring jazz musicians in the Huddleston Jazz Band, South Africa’s first youth orchestra. In his teenage years, Masekela performed with respected artists like Abdullah Ibrahim, Jonas Gwangwa and Kippie Moeketsi. He later collaborated with musical icons like Miriam Makeba, Dorothy Masuka, Fela Kuti, Hedzoleh Soundz, Francis Fuster and Dudu Pukwana. Masekela in 1958, became the cog of the famous South African play King Kong, which was written by Todd Matshikiza, after touring with the Manhattan Brothers, where he mainly sang about his experiences as a young man growing up in South Africa. After the Sharpeville Massacre in 1960, Masekela went to study in America. In 1961, Bra Hugh went to study at the London Guildhall School of Music and later the Manhattan School of Music, where he befriended Harry Belafonte after going into exile. He went on to record many songs in New York, including Grazing in the Grass in 1968 and has collaborated with international artists like The Byrds and Paul Simon. Masekela produced music for musicals such as Sarafina and was featured in the 2003 documentary film Amandla!. In 1997, Masekela announced he was being treated for drug abuse, admitting that he had previously used cocaine. More recently, he collaborated with young artists like Thandiswa Mazwai, Zakes Bantwini and was a regular feature on Kagiso Lediga’s show on SABC, The Bantu Hour, where he collaborated with hip hop artist Mashayabuqe. In 2017, Masekela cancelled all his tours and performances after announcing that he had prostate cancer. -TNA Reporter