THE business community is hoping Cyril Ramaphosa’s first speech next Saturday as ANC president will bring clear indications of policy shifts across several key aspects of the economy, and direction on issues including healthcare, education, energy and land reform. Business and investment analysts believe Ramaphosa has the potential to trigger a new age in economic growth while external stakeholders will be watching closely to see if the new leadership stays the course on progressive policy decisions or opportunistically dials back. A decision in either direction will have a significant and lasting impact on SA’s economy and the future course of radical economic transformation (RET) as endorsed by the ruling party. It is hoped Ramaphosa will beef up economic policies after officially taking office in Luthuli House. National African Federated Chamber of Commerce (Nafcoc) chief economist Landiwe Mahlangu said Ramaphosa will draw much attention – both locally and internationally – as business community and investors are keen to hear what the new leadership has to say. “We are of the view that at the centre of RET must be the development of small, medium and emerging (SME) businesses in general and black business in particular. “There must be more action with regard to SMEs and policy change and all government actions must rally behind the sector,” Mahlangu said. Nafcoc believes the urgent task of this new leadership is to revitalise the economy and intensify the transformation agenda, “finish and klaar”, he said. “Ramaphosa must further emphasise more on a commitment to give equal attention to private and public sector corruption. We also support the inquiry into the so-called state capture and must look to the totality of the matter,” he said. Business Leadership South Africa (BLSA) said it expected Ramaphosa and his entire leadership to focus on the urgent task of addressing inequality, unemployment and poverty in the country. In addition, one of the crucial issues that may bite Ramaphosa is minimum wage and Cosatu will be waiting to take him head on in this matter. Some observers said that Ramaphosa had a better chance, it seems, of keeping the ANC above 50%, but others argued it also seems unlikely to change much. The rand has been steady over 2-1/2 years against the US dollar and other emerging market currencies. The currency is still sitting strong at R12.38/$ since Ramaphosa was announced as ANC president.  -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za