GAUTENG Premier David Makhura has once again apologised to the families who lost their loved ones at Life Esidimeni, saying the provincial government was responsible for the loss of life and the pain and suffering the families endured. Makhura said the families had heard little of what happened and a lot of blame shifting. “Since the process started there’s been a lot of blame shifting from officials. I’m here to answer questions on what I know, I can’t pass the buck. As the head of the government in the province the buck stops with me,” he said. During his testimony at the Esidimeni Arbitration hearing yesterday afternoon, the premier said he was assured by then health MEC Qedani Mahlangu and Dr Barney Selebano that they would take patients to existing government institutions. He said in the meeting with Nehawu and the premier’s budget council there was no mention of NGOs. Makhura testified that following Mahlangu’s reply in the legislature that 36 patients had died, he called a meeting with Mahlangu’s team which included the head of department. During the meeting, the team tried to paint a picture that it was normal for mental health patients to die. He went on to say that Mahlangu did not tell him that she was misled by officials as she consistently claimed during her testimony at the arbitration. Earlier, Gauteng finance MEC Barbara Creecy described the Esidimeni tragedy as a series of events that had  filled her with shame. She testified that the tragedy was avoidable and that there was no reason why 143 mentally ill patients were turned into sacrificial lambs in the name of a cost-cutting exercise when in fact the department under spent millions on mental health services. She confirmed that some NGOs were paid millions, one of them Precious Angels, whose owner, Ethel Ncube, claimed she had to use her own money to feed patients. Precious Angels is one of the NGOs where most deaths occurred. Ncube pleaded poverty, but did not inform the tribunal she was paid more than R1m while Mosego NGO was paid R13m. Overall, NGOs were paid more than R47m. -LERATO DIALE