Assessments and covering roofs with salvage sheets is already taking place south of Johannesburg where a hailstorm left two people dead and a string of houses damaged at the weekend. Tsholofelo Mokgatle was in the house with her eight-month-old daughter, Kgomotso, when the storm struck. “It was very hot as I sat in the house, my daughter was falling asleep in my arms, I thought of taking her to bed then I noticed that it was dark outside. “Hailstones then started smashing the windows and the ceiling and tiles caved in. We attempted to open the door and flee but the wind pushed us back into the house,” Mokgatle said. Resident Sphiwe Tshabalala accused Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba of grandstanding after he visited the area on Sunday. “Most people don’t have access to basic necessities like food and water. The mayor must speed up the process of providing accommodation,” he said. Tshabalala also blamed developers for doing a shoddy job, causing the houses to crack and become damaged they way they did. The Gauteng government is waiting for a report from disaster management teams after assessing the extent of damage before they can declare whether it’s a disaster area or not. The hailstorm hit areas that included Protea Glen, Bramfischerville, Snake Park, Lefureng, Fleurhof, Lenasia, Lawley and Kagiso on Saturday. It left two people dead and a number of people with minor injuries. “After assessment by the disaster teams, Premier David Makhura can determine if the places should be declared disaster areas or not. “There are certain criteria to be considered before an area can be declared a disaster area or not,” Gauteng cooperative governance and traditional affairs spokesperson Mogomotsi Mogodiri said. The government would continue providing alternative accommodation, he said, and he called on businesses and good Samaritans to continue assisting the victims. MEC for infrastructure development Jacob Mamabolo and Mashaba confirmed that the two died after a tree fell on their car. Mamabolo said disaster centres were activated on Saturday after the South African Weather Service issued a warning that heavy rains were expected. ntombin@thenewage.co.za