THE national executive member Collen Maine told ANC members in the province to get over the Nasrec elective conference outcomes. Maine was addressing the one day Lekgotla in Kimberley, where he called for an end in factions. He said the country should at all times come first because the mood was positive after the election of the new president. He reiterated to ANC provincial chairperson Zamani Saul that deployees of the party to governance should not ask questions when they are redeployed. “We must work together to ensure that we get two third majority vote and we must at all times remember that the country comes first, the ANC is serving the people of this country. We are appealing to comrades to leave Colesberg behind, leave Nasrec behind, those conferences came and went so let us not fight each other,” he said. “Now it is the time to embrace the comrade that you were not talking to, allow comrades to speak and have their say,” he said. Maine said although he had his own preferences towards the Nasrec conference it was over now and he was willing to work with the elected leadership. He was elected the convenor of national executive members deployed to the province who include Susan Shabangu, Reginah Mhlaule, Sifiso Buthelezi, Derek Henekom, Joel Netshitendzhe, Nkenke Kekana and Thandi Mahibandlhana. Maine said the ANC members needed to start their election work to ensure that the ANC wins with decisive victory. “We must again remember that positions belong to the ANC, it is the ANC that contests elections, when we redeploy you please do not ask us. “Please come to terms with the reality that is happening and accept Cyril Ramaphosa as your president. Ill-discipline cannot be accepted, we must work to ensure that there is unity in the ANC and we close ranks,” he said. Also speaking at the lekgotla, Saul said they were determined to root out corruption in all 30 municipalities they were leading and the provincial departments. “Whatever will be the outcome of the ANC 2019 elections will be determined on how we fight corruption. “Every ANC member in the province must refocus their energies in fighting corruption everywhere,” he said. The one day lekgotla was also addressed by the department of rural development on the land audit programme. The state of governance was also discussed paving way for the state of the province address today. Saul told delegates that sittings of lekgotla needed to reflect on the escalating rate of unemployment as a matter of urgency. “We need to create decent jobs, we cannot move in and out of lekgotla without coming out with a tangible aspects, young people are looking on us. “We need to come up with radical programmes to create jobs. We are sitting here and actually the province has got the unemployment rate in the country,” he said. Saul also issued a warning statement to party members who were self centred and derail service delivery. “We need cutting edge leaders, you cannot be a leader leading by common sense and being arrogant, you are in the wrong place. “We need to reconnect with the values of the ANC, the mood out there is good the people have started regaining confidence in the party, we need to capitalise on that,” he said. tiisetsom@thenewage.co.za -TIISETSO MANOKO