DESPITE having 872 listeriosis cases since the beginning of last year, economic development environment agriculture and rural development MEC Lebogang Maile says the province has the situation under control. The National Institute of Communicable Diseases (NICD) confirmed the statistics. The report said the bacteria had claimed the lives of 164 people to date, with Gauteng leading the list. The NICD report further said 60% of the cases had occurred in Gauteng, followed by the Western Cape with 13% and KwaZulu-Natal at 7%. Maile said: “The findings are quite worrying and disturbing and this requires our veterinary services to be vigilant at facilities that fall within their scope, in terms of the legislative framework and play their part in containing the spread of this bacterium.” Listeriosis is a rare infection mainly caused by eating food contaminated with a specific bacterium which is found in soil, water and vegetation. It can be treated if reported in time and can be prevented if good hygiene is practised. The department of health has proffered five key means of prevention which are available on its website. To date, the department has instituted various actions. Samples have been taken from all active abattoirs in the province and where necessary deep cleaning has been instituted. Maile said the department of agriculture and rural development’s veterinary service was hard at work to avert the spread of the bacterium in Gauteng. He said a dedicated team of able men and women had devised a comprehensive strategy for the province, working in collaboration with relevant stakeholders and affected parties. “Even though the findings are scary, we have the situation under control in the province. “The report from our veterinary services shows that we have the situation well under control and we urge everybody to support our initiatives,” he said. Maile said the department, working with other relevant stakeholders, continued to coordinate the outbreak response plan. He urged citizens to adhere to basic  food hygiene principles as outlined in the World Health Organisation’s Five Keys to Safer Food programme. The core commandments of food hygiene are • Keep clean: wash your hands before handling food and often during food preparation. • Separate raw and cooked: separate raw meat, poultry and seafood from other foods. • Cook thoroughly: cook foods thoroughly, especially meat, poultry, eggs and seafood. • Keep food at safe temperatures: refrigerate and reheat foods correctly. • Use safe water or make it safe by boiling, choose foods processed for safety. ntombin@thenewage.co.za -NTOMBI NKOSI