VERY few people including former Springbok coach Pieter de Villiers have offered Allister Coetzee words of support after he was sacked on Friday, but some, like former Bulls wing John Mametsa, believe Coetzee brought the disaster onto himself. While it is believed the former Springbok coach did not have the support of the South African Rugby Union during his two-year tenure, Mametsa feels Coetzee himself made it hard for anyone to support him. “You must first support yourself and Allister never did that. He never stood up for himself. He was just there, taking whatever that he was forced to work with. His team selection too did him no favours. He left out players who were in form and made dubious calls,” Mametsa said. “Look at the Siya Kolisi captaincy issue. That was a perfect opportunity because the man was performing and he ticked all the boxes. “He was leading the Stormers, but Coetzee said Eben Etzebeth was more deserving. How do you support someone who keeps shooting himself in the foot like this? Maybe he was set up to fail, but he made the jobs of those who set him up way too easy.” Coetzee’s two years in charge of the Boks saw him win only 11 of 25 Tests (44%) in 2016 and 2017. It was even considered a miracle when the former Stormers coach was not sacked after a poor end of year tour that ended with a loss to Wales last year. The man who gave all the indications that Coetzee would be sacked, new director of rugby at SA Rugby Rassie Erasmus has now been tasked with the tough job of managing the responsibilities of the Springbok coach until the national team’s coaching and management group for 2018 is confirmed later this month. Mametsa does not see anyone in the local market as the perfect candidate to take the Boks to the 2019 Rugby World Cup in Japan, but thinks Erasmus may just be the man. “The fact that he was brought in as a director of rugby means Saru backs him. But for me, I don’t know if he is the right man for the job. It is really hard to say, especially after what happened to Coetzee and Heyneke Meyer before him,” Mametsa said. Former Lions coach Johan Ackermann, who coaches Gloucester in England, is also a hot favourite to take over, but all indications are that he will only get the job after the 2019 World Cup and get a chance of starting his own four-year cycle. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage. co.za