DA has submitted a motion to Gauteng legislature to refer Premier David Makhura to the Legislature’s Integrity Commissioner for stating under oath that he did not know that Life Esidimeni patients were being sent to NGOs rather than state facilities. During his State of the Province address in 2017, Makhura said that he would have never approved a plan to outsource mental health care to NGOs as it is a primary responsibility of the state. Makhura also said during his Life Esidimeni testimony that he was unaware that patients would be sent to NGOs as he thought that there were enough beds for them in state hospitals. DA Shadow MEC of Health in Gauteng Jack Bloom said Makhura could be charged with perjury as he gave false testimony under oath to the Life Esidimeni inquiry. He said Makhura was in the legislature on 15 March 2016 when former Health MEC Qedani Mahlangu said in her oral reply to a question posed by him (Bloem) that 1835 patients from Esidimeni would be sent to new places before the end of June 2016 and that the NGOs have hired the staff. Bloom said the NGOs had already been given licences by then. “The Hansard transcript records my response as follows: “I am still very, very concerned. I speak to mental health NGOs, and they tell me that there are no facilities, that it simply has not been done.” According to Bloom, Mahlangu also made reference to the court judgment that day in favour of the Gauteng Health Department moving Esidimeni patients to the Takalani Children’s home in Soweto despite the concern that it was not suitable to move adults there. At the time, Mahlangu said, “the patients we are bringing there are exactly more or less the same intellectual disability of the same people who are at Takalani, so there is nothing wrong with what we are doing”. Bloom stated that the mixing of male and female patients and children could have been averted if Makhura had listened to the warnings instead of falsely claiming that he didn’t even know that patients were being sent to NGOs “The Hansard transcript of the 15 March 2016 indicates that Makhura lied about what he knew concerning the transfer of patients to NGOs. “He certainly knew about the transfer to Takalani because of the court case and Mahlangu’s response to my questions in the legislature.” He said in the letter he wrote to the legislature, he is calling on it to express sincere regret for the deaths of the Life Esidimeni patients and confirm that the Premier and MECs are individually accountable for what happens in their departments. “They should ensure that they are given true information by their officials, including replies to the Legislature. “To refer to the Integrity Commissioner the issue of whether Premier Makhura breached the Code of Conduct and Ethics by misleading the house and the Arbitration Hearings by claiming that he never knew that Life Esidimeni patients were being sent to NGOs, despite evidence to the contrary, including the proceedings of the sitting on 15 March 2016.” -TNA Reporter 