THE ructions in the ANC and the supposed “two centres of power” will have absolutely no effect on the budget, which will be presented to Parliament next Wednesday, experts said. Unlike the state of the nation address, the budget is forward-looking and sets the agenda for the year ahead. It is not a document of the sitting president nor even of the Treasury or finance ministry. Rather, the budget is a document of the governing ANC and must fall in line with the policies of the party adopted at its conference in December. When Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba pulls his speech out on Wednesday afternoon, it will have been endorsed by the Cabinet and the parliamentary committee on finance. There is no doubt that the major decisions of the ANC’s national conference last December will be spelled out in the document, such as radical economic transformation, land expropriation without compensation and free tertiary education. The Treasury confirmed yesterday that it is all systems go for Gigaba’s maiden budget speech next week and nothing will prevent him from presenting it. ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule made it clear yesterday that there were no two centres of power. He insisted that “power lies with the ANC”. “All deployments and orders come from (ANC headquarters) Luthuli House,” he said. Since the Mandela era, the budget has always supported the economic policies of the ruling party. During Nelson Mandela’s presidency it was GEAR, Thabo Mbeki introduced the RDP and Jacob Zuma the NDP. The budget is an annual plan for what the government wants to achieve and how it will spend money to achieve those goals. The budget planning cycle starts as early as April of the previous year when the national Treasury issues departments with guidelines for requests such as roll overs of qualifying unspent funds from the previous financial year. Each government department and province compiles their own budget and from December to February, the Minister of Finance receives the recommendations and reports for preparation of the mini budget (Medium Term Budget Policy Statement) which is presented to Parliament every October. The Treasury collates the requests from each government department, allocates funds and presents a budget to the Cabinet for endorsement. After receiving input and making changes, the finance minister presents the approved document to Parliament and the public. Azar Jammine, chief economist at Econometrix, agrees that the 2018 budget will be a document endorsed by Luthuli House and cautioned that the Treasury had a lot of influence. “Reading between the lines, I think Gigaba will have swung more to the Ramaphosa view because does not want to jeopardise his career,” he said. Duma Qubule, a leading transformation agent, said the Treasury had excessive powers over the budget. “Even if Parliament debates the budget, the final say lies with Treasury – the very same Treasury that has opposed the ANC’s economic policy on radical economic transformation. That on its own shows how powerful the Treasury is on driving the budget,” Qubule said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za