WHENEVER a relegation battle in the PSL looms, players worry about possible salary cuts, downgrades of their houses and cars, as well as possible moves away from their club. All of a sudden, it becomes every man for himself, with the club only thinking about how to return to top flight football. Such thoughts are beginning to creep in at Ajax Cape Town, but at the top of experienced defender Roscoe Pietersen’s worries is avoiding relegation to afford youngsters at Ajax more chances of playing at the highest level. As it stands, Ajax have one of the youngest squads in the league, with the average age of their goalkeepers being only 21, while most of their defenders – such as captain Musa Lebusa, Sergio Kammies and Shane Saralina – are even a year younger, and Repo Malepe and Yagan Sasman only 21. The midfield too is packed with players between the ages of 19 and 21 such as Grant Magerman, Morne Nel, Fagrie Lakay and Masilake Phohlongo. Most of the players mentioned, who include goalkeeper Jody February, Lebusa, Kammies, Malepe, Lakay, Nel and Magerman are South African youth internationals and will form part of the pool that national U-20 coach Thabo Senong – and whoever will be coaching the U-23 Olympics team – will be looking over. It is for that reason Pietersen hopes the Urban Warriors avoid the drop. They need as many opportunities as possible at the highest level to cultivate their blossoming careers in the PSL – and with a chance of playing for national teams. “The main reason I am desperate for the team to stay up is for these talented kids who you watch every weekend, with the feeling they will make it into the big time. “Of course, they have a chance to go elsewhere if the team goes down, but some are here because they don’t get first team opportunities at other teams,” Pietersen said. “This is why we need a big response from all our supporters against SuperSport United tonight. “What helps is that SuperSport are in the same situation as us. That means there is not much of a gap in terms of quality so we can fight to win on equal terms. “We are also at home and that makes things better for us.” For Pietersen, his belief that Ajax, who are second from bottom with 21 points from 22 matches, will avoid the drop comes from the fact that many teams are also not safe. With only Platinum Stars behind Ajax and trailing them by four points, teams such as Bloemfontein Celtic and AmaZulu are still to face Ajax and they have the same coaches they had when the season started. But Ajax made changes, firing Stanley Menzo and bringing in Muhsin Ertugral, who Petersen believes has made significant changes. “We are more organised. Those teams are playing the same way. We have a different approach and a fresh look at the situation. That is why we are working at even avoiding the play-offs,” Pietersen said. • The Urban Warriors host SuperSport United at Athlone Stadium at 7.30pm tonight. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za