HIGHLIGHTING the importance of the First 1000 Days of a child’s life, the Western Cape health MEC Dr Nomafrench Mbombo launched Pregnancy Education Week in Macassar. The MEC on Monday launched the week at the Macassar Community Health Centre (MHC) which saw her interact with staff and addressed several expectant mums of the community. Pregnancy Week is commemorated to promote and educate women and the public about pregnancy and enhance healthy pregnancies as well as healthy babies. Mbombo said it was a crucial time for ensuring that every pregnant woman and child was nurtured. Parents and care-givers also required support from conception onwards, especially the most vulnerable, through a whole of society approach, so that children could achieve their full potential throughout their life course. “More than 87 700 deliveries took place at provincial government health facilities during 2016,” Mbombo said. “This has increased by more than 2 100 at the end of last year and that is why we are highlighting the importance of the First 1000 Days.” “A child’s health is most vulnerable during this time,” she said. “This period, from conception until a child’s 2nd birthday, offers a unique window of opportunity to shape healthier and more prosperous futures,” the MEC said. The research indicates that children who benefit from essential First 1000 Day outcomes, can earn up to 20% more as adults versus their counterparts and are more likely to have healthy families themselves. The First 1 000 Days project was implemented in 2016 and is aimed at improving the survival rate, ending preventable maternal deaths, stillbirths, neonates and babies in various stages of development. “We want children and mothers to thrive, realising their full physical, cognitive,/mental and social potential,” Mbombo said. “The departments of health, social development, education, are all working together to improve the outcome of children by introducing pregnant woman to the First 1000 Days project. “I would like to stress that women need to visit the antenatal clinic as soon
as they become aware of their pregnancy, anything which can cause harm to the mother, can harm the unborn baby physically and mentally and must be avoided,” she said. “Alcohol, smoking and ongoing stress experienced by the mother can affect the baby” Mbombo said. The MEC said physical and emotional violence is dangerous and could lead to psychological damage or even a premature or stillbirth and called for support from families. “Supportive families and friends can help ensure that mum has a healthy and peaceful pregnancy”. “The mental well-being of the mother deserves as much attention as the physical well-being,” Mbombo said. nadinef@thenewage.co.za