MALUSI Gigaba’s 2018 Budget has gone a long way to repair the fiscal credibility SA lost in October when the mediumterm budget policy statement (mini budget) shocked domestic financial markets and resulted in further sovereign credit rating downgrades, according to economists. Despite the ups and downs of the Budget 2018, which was presented to Parliament last week and saw a one percentage point increase in VAT and below inflation increases in personal and other taxes, experts believe the holes evident in October were being filled. After Gigaba presented his mini budget in October many expected the public purse to be in tatters ahead the presentation of the main budget. The Bureau for Economic Research (BER), a respected economic research house, said in its budget report it was excited by the opportunities for SA’s economy under President Cyril Ramaphosa, but also sees some challenging hurdles ahead. The report pointed out that the 2018 Budget started to repair the fiscal credibility lost in October in the wake of the mini budget and the impact on domestic financial markets and credit rating downgrades imposed on the country. Both Hugo Pienaar and Harri Kemp of BER, said that the wave of positive global sentiment towards South Africa and signs of improved domestic confidence so far this year appear to have encouraged the Treasury to announce some bold steps. “These include the first increase in the value-added tax (VAT) rate since 1993 and an unexpected further lifting in the prudential limit for offshore investing. Also positive was confirmation in the Budget that no allocations were made for the provision of nuclear power over the medium term. “On the other hand, the Budget numbers reveal the stark reality of former president Jacob Zuma’s populist announcement of free higher education in December. In all likelihood, this forced the Treasury’s hand on the tax front,” the team said. “Financial markets should celebrate the higher VAT rate as it shows real commitment to get the fiscal house in order. “However, a number of concerns remain, especially about government expenditure and the continued lack of concrete measures to lift SA’s potential growth rate,” Pienaar said. Growth outlook revised up on improved confidence, supportive global conditions and more good news is that there are no plans for a nuclear programme. “It’s tight, but Moody’s should provide a reprieve. After a much-anticipated Cabinet reshuffle (expected this week), the real test for President Ramaphosa will be whether his administration has the will and ability to implement these essential structural reforms in a timely fashion,” he said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za