ANC deputy president David Mabuza moved swiftly yesterday to allay fears that Jacob Zuma’s exit as head of state would trigger a wave of unrest in the ruling party and across the country. In the wake of Zuma’s resignation this week, Mabuza took to social media, arguing that with the ANC now entering uncharted waters with Zuma’s replacement Cyril Ramaphosa at the helm, there was no need for anxiety as the ruling party was opening a new chapter in its future and that of the nation. “The changes that are presently happening in our country, should not cause any anxiety, they should be viewed as a relief that we are now starting to solve our problems. There is really nothing to fear,” he said. Mabuza was part of the delegation of senior ANC leaders who negotiated for over a week with Zuma to tender his resignation as head of state. Last month at a gala dinner in Limpopo, Mabuza declared support for Ramaphosa, vowing to “protect” and not “contradict” him. With regard to the ANC’s decision to give Zuma the boot, Mabuza said that the decision was necessary as the ANC was attempting to awaken from the slumber of corruption. ‘The ANC is the leader of our society, it is expected to provide leadership, and equally respond to issues raised by the public. Therefore, the current developments are necessary. All of us are expected to steer the ship in the right direction,” he said. SACP national spokesperson Alex Mashilo said Zuma’s resignation was long overdue. “His resignation is something that should have happened a long time ago. The firing of ministers, the erosion of the hard won rule of law, the perversion of key institutions, notably the criminal justice system, have had a devastating impact on our country,” he said. UDM leader Bantu Holomisa shared Mashilo’s sentiment. “Good riddance. He has brought the country to a standstill and in the process destroyed the gains of our freedom,” Spokesperson to DA leader Mmusi Maimane, Portia Adams, joined the chorus of agreement that Zuma had to leave office. “The DA welcomes that this long overdue resignation has actually taken place. We rejoice with all of South Africa today as this long and painful decade of Jacob Zuma’s presidency finally comes to an end. “Zuma did do a lot of harm to this country and under his watch, corruption has been allowed to flourish to the point where it nearly destroyed our country,” Adams said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za