THE Free State agriculture and rural development department failed to manage and monitor the implementation of the terms of agreement regarding budget evaluations and expenditure control and performance by Estina on the Vrede Dairy farm. This is according to public protector, Busisiwe Mkhwebane, who released the much awaited report on the controversial farm on Friday. Mkhwebane also found that there were procurement irregularities, gross negligence and maladministration related to the project. She found that the head of the department did not follow the normal procurement processes as prescribed by the Constitution, the Public Finance Management Act (PFMA) and the national treasury procurement regulations. She also found that the department failed to adhere to treasury transcripts. She said the payments to Estina were not in line with the department of treasury prescripts. Mkhwebane’s report said: “No documents, policies or measures were provided by the department that proper financial control and risk management of the project were in place. Mkhwebane could not find any evidence or indication that the accounting officer invoked provisions of the agreement in respect of control over the projects and this raises concern.” She said she could not determine allegations that prices for goods and services had been inflated especially prices in respect of construction, processing equipment, procurement of cattle and administration costs. This was because Estina, the private sector partners in the project, did not follow procurement processes when procuring services of the service providers in the project. Mkhwebane recommended that Premier Ace Magashule institute disciplinary action against all implicated officials involved in the project. She said Magashule must also among other things submit the report regarding action to the public protector after the conclusion of the disciplinary processes. She said he should ensure that he conducts a reconciliation of the number of cattle initially procured and found during April as per his undertaking. Mkhwebane said Magashule should ensure that he submits an implementation within 30 days of the issuing of the report. The project was supposed to have benefited 100 people but it is alleged that more than R200m was channelled to Estina’s company account. Mkhwebane’s report comes two weeks after the Hawks seized computers and documents after they conducted search and seizure operations at both Magashule’s offices and the agriculture department in the province. The provincial government spokesperson, Tiisetso Makahele, said they had acknowledged the report and were still studying it. “The provincial government has received the much anticipated report and will study it so that it is familiar with its contents,” Makahele said. “The recommendations and remedial action as set out by the public protector will also be looked into. At this stage, the provincial government will not be able to comment further on any of the contents of the report until it has satisfied itself and has also sought guidance on how to address it.” MICHAEL TLHAKUDI michaelt@thenewage.co.za