President Cyril Ramaphosa has praised the Defence Force for serving South Africans and always being able to help elsewhere on the African continent, when needed. Ramaphosa was speaking during the SANDF’s interfaith prayer service at the Mittah  Seperepere Convention Centre in Kimberley on Sunday. The service was held in preparation for Armed Forces Day on Wednesday. Ramaphosa said Armed Forces Day allowed South Africans to remember all the men and women who paid the ultimate prize in defence of freedom, peace and justice and whose blood was spilled by countless South Africans and freedom fighters to guarantee South Africa’s freedom and human rights culture. “It is a reminder that brave men and women continue to put their lives on the line to secure hard-won freedoms and defend our Constitution,” Ramaphosa said. “This year, these celebrations carry a profound and special meaning for our nation.” The president said this year’s celebration was particularly important, as the country celebrates the change of leadership in the ANC. He was referring to the recent resignation of former President Jacob Zuma after a decision by the ANC NEC to recall him. “They are even more significant because they occur in a year when South Africa commemorates the centenary birthday of our first Commander in Chief, President Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela.” “It is this SANDF – the People’s National Defence Force – that our founding father, President Nelson Mandela envisaged as a non-partisan unifier and defender of all South Africans.” Ramaphosa said Mandela was able to mold the SANDF into a law-abiding and coherent institution that safeguards the sovereignty and territorial integrity in defence of its people and the continent. “He left us a National Defence Force that is a true microcosm of our diverse society. This is an SANDF that inspires confidence for a better, more secure tomorrow. A truly National Defence Force for all South Africans that guarantees that its tanks and guns will never again roll into townships and suburbs to fight against the very same people it was established to protect.” He also lauded the Defence Force for being an employer of choice for many young people who are starting their careers. He said, like he mentioned in his State of the Nation Address on Friday, he would soon be visiting the leadership and management of all national departments to see how well everyone could work together to advance service delivery, training and job creation. Ramaphosa said due to the delivery of the Budget Speech on Wednesday, he had assigned Minister of Defence Nosiviwe Mapisa-Ngqakula and General Solly Choke to lead all celebrations related to the day. -TNA Reporter