A POLICE captain from Linden is expected to appear in court this morning on charges of corruption. The officer was arrested by members of the anti-corruption unit after he allegedly demanded money from the father of a suspect who had been arrested on charges of drunk driving. A complaint about the allegations of corruption were made to a court prosecutor who then alerted the police. The officer is one of the 133 people arrested at the weekend through continuous crime operations that also resulted in the recovery of 18 firearms and closing down of 10 illegal liquor outlets. Among the crimes that resulted in the arrests were the possession of drugs, 112 for drunk driving, 72 undocumented persons and three for house robbery. Col Lungelo Dlamini said the three people arrested for house robbery in Parkhurst were under police guard at the hospital following a shoot-out with security guards who reacted to a panic alarm on Friday. “The suspects held up a woman and her husband as soon as they had arrived at their residence from a local restaurant,” Dlamini said. “The victims were held up with firearms and the robbers demanded jewellery and took several household goods. One of the victims managed to press a panic button and as the men were trying to flee from the scene, they were involved in a shoot-out with security guards. “When the police responded, one of the robbers who was bleeding, was found hiding near a local church. He was arrested and a firearm with no serial number was recovered. “Two of the robbers were traced to a hospital where they were receiving treatment for gunshot wounds. Some of the stolen jewellery was also recovered.” Dlamini said some of the firearms that were seized were found during a stop and search operation as a result of information from members of the community and at crime scenes. Four of the firearms were seized in Katlehong when police reacted to information at the local hostel and following a business robbery of a local liquor outlet while other firearms were confiscated in Thembisa, Brakpan, Bronkhorstspruit, Kagiso, Ivory Park, Johannesburg Central, Evaton, Rietgat, Tokoza and Roodepoort. Twenty-three suspects who were arrested for the possession of unlicensed firearm are also due to appear in court today. dikeledir@thenewage.co.za -DIKELEDI MOLOBELA