ALMOST 47% of South African children aged 0- 6 years do not attend an educational institution, a report released by statistician-general Risenga Maluleke yesterday has revealed. The thematic report on education, Education Series Volume IV: Early Childhood Development in South Africa for 2016, found that nearly 47% of these kids did not receive early childhood learning. “A breakdown by monthly household income quintiles revealed that close to half of the children in the lower household income quintile did not attend educational facilities, while 40% of the children in the highest household income quintile attended ECD facilities,” Maluleke said. He said North West and KwaZuluNatal had lower attendance rates among the young age group compared to the national average and other provinces at 55.5% and 55.6% respectively. “Gauteng had the lowest proportion of children aged 0-6 who did not attend any educational institutions suggesting rural-urban gaps in access. “On the other hand, 21.2% of the total children aged 0-6 were attending educare centres or crèches. Gauteng and Limpopo had the most children attending such facilities at 28.7% and 26% respectively,” said Maluleke. About 5% of children in Northern Cape, 5% in Gauteng and 5% in Limpopo attended day mother gogo types of child development arrangements. “One reason for this difference could be that most of the ECD facilities in South Africa are private and thus funding to access them is difficult for some children, particularly the ones from poor families in provinces such as KwaZuluNatal and North West,” according to Maluleke. The report also focuses on the lack of access to adequate healthcare, good nutrition, good quality child care and nurturing, safe environment, early learning and stimulation among others. According to the report 49 out of 100 children aged three years did not attend any ECD facility in 2016. Even though close to one-third of the six year olds attended Grade R, one in five children (20.4%) in the age group were still in pre-school and 3.6% were attending crèche. The report further shows that among children aged 0-6 who did not attend any educational programmes or facilities, 74% were spending most of their time at home with their parents or guardians and close to 13% were staying at home with another adult. “Children who were mostly spending time at home with another adult were predominantly found in KwaZulu-Natal at 18.8% and Western Cape at 17.8%. “A small proportion of 2.1% were either staying at home with someone younger than 18 years or at someone else’s dwelling. Such arrangements were mainly practiced in provinces such as KwaZulu-Natal, Northern Cape and Limpopo with nearly 3% each and Free State at nearly 4%,” he said. -SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE|shonisanit@thenewage.co.za