WHEN the referee blew the final whistle at the Stade Boubker Aamar in Sale, Morocco on Saturday afternoon, that did not only confirm Bantwana’s passage to the 2018 U-17 Fifa World Cup, but created another piece of history. The national U-17 women’s team did not only work hard to qualify amid a total lack of interest from the whole of South Africa, they did it for the second time since 2010, when again, no one cared about them as the 2010 World Cup and prince Philip were here. The excuse now would be that they did it at a time when everyone wondered if Jacob Zuma’s presidency would continue, or if Cyril Ramaphosa would ascend to the highest office in the land. The argument is even backed by the fact that when the male U-20 team made it to the World Cup in 2009 and last year, everyone in the country knew. All those issues aside, Bantwana are now going to Uruguay later in November to compete at the World Cup and their glory was delivered by former Banyana Banyana star defender Simphiwe Dludlu. The 5-1 scoreline managed at the Dobsonville Stadium against Morocco on February 4 set up what was always going to be a mission impossible for Morocco. To show that they are not a fluke of any sort, Bantwana went all the way to Morocco to seal their World Cup berth, winning 1-0 this past weekend to join teams like Ghana, North and South Korea, Japan and New Zealand. Captain Kaylin Jordaan and prolific striker Thambolinye Mzoneli continued to be the brightest sparks in a team not lacking in talent, guts and virtuoso, while Dludlu’s experience of playing everywhere on the continent, if not the world, carried Bantwana through. Sibulele Hlolweni scored the only goal in Morocco, a stunning 68th-minute volley. It could have been 2-0 had Mzoneli not been denied by the woodwork. Having missed four tournaments, Bantwana will finally want to make a mark on the big stage and Safa president Danny Jordaan says he is thrilled by the talented young girls. “I am really proud of your achievements. Going to the Fifa World Cup is the pinnacle of any football player’s achievements and you have done so in style. I promised you to go to Spain as part of your preparations and this will happen. It is part of us saying thank you and well done,” Jordaan said Bantwana arrived back in South Africa yesterday afternoon. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za