The ANC will on Sunday launch centennial year celebrations in honour of former President Nelson Mandela. The event will take place on 11 February at the Grand Parade in Cape Town. The day correlates with Mandela’s release from Victor Verster prison in 1990. ANC Spokesperson Pule Mabe said ANC leaders would be visiting several notable families and locations. “In line with the revolutionary pilgrimage the national officials have been embarking upon, they will visit families of former leaders of our movement, monuments in remembrance of fallen heroes of our struggle as well as faith-based communities,” Mabe said. Mabe said the officials would further have meetings on the water crisis, which is currently taking place in the Western Cape and various other sectors of society. Five of the ANC’s top six officials will be visiting several parts of the Western Cape on Friday in preparation for the event on Sunday. Party President Cyril Ramaphosa will hold a mini Imbizo at the Mitchells Plain train station, a breakfast with the family of the late Dullah Omar, a wreath-laying ceremony at the Trojan Horse site in Athlone, he will meet with the water crisis coalition and with all Interfaith at Litha Methodist Church in Litha Park, as well as pay courtesy visit to Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu where he will be joined by other top six officials. Deputy President David Mabuza will go on a walkabout at Nolungile train station and Site C taxi rank in Khayelitsha. Secretary-General Ace Magashule will be on a walkabout in Phillipi starting at Philippi train station and go on a door to door in Philippi Wards 33, 34, 36, 39 and 80. He will later have a meeting with religious leaders at Sinethemba High School. Deputy Secretary-General Jessie Duarte will be in Nyanga. She will later go door to door and visit the family of struggle veteran Mildred Holo. She will then have a community meeting and pay a visit to the Dora Tamana Site in Hangberg in Imizamo Yethu. Treasurer-General Paul Mashatile will go on a walkabout at the Lwandle taxi rank and later do a door to door in wards 84, 85, 86, 89. Mashatile will then have a meeting at the Nomzamo Community Hall to address issues of unemployment. -TNA Reporter