CLEAN sheets have been hard to come by for Orlando Pirates’ No 1 keeper Jackson Mabokgwane lately. In his 13 matches in all competitions, Mabokgwane has kept just four clean sheets. Ahead of the Soweto derby against Kaizer Chiefs on Saturday, this could be one of the departments that could provide a defining moment in determining who leaves FNB Stadium with the bragging rights. Compared to his counterpart at Chiefs, Itumeleng Khune, who has kept 12 clean sheets in 20 matches for Amakhosi, the Pirates goalie seems to be struggling with a case of butter fingers. While Mabokgwane acknowledges that clean sheets win games, he will be pleased if his side can win the game even if a goal or two is conceded. But he is well aware that he will need to be at his absolute best against a Chiefs side who are stingy at the back. “I am a dedicated goalkeeper and I always play to keep a clean sheet but if my team wins 4-2 every day and we win the league I will be happy enough,” he said. “I will celebrate the 4-2 wins more than goalless draws.” Mabokgwane has been the villain in some of the team’s sticky situations, but has been fortunate to be let off the hook as the team went on to win as in the case of their 4-2 victory over Chippa United on Sunday. It was his blunder that brought about the second goal by Katlego Mashego, but as is often the case, the fact that Bucs eventually won means no one remembers his lapse of judgment. He says that keepers often take stick when the team loses and he has vowed to impress in this his first derby. “The team is doing well, every football club when it does well people don’t talk about goalkeepers and defenders. “When the team does badly, people look at goalkeepers and defenders and say they are conceding too many goals. But you need to understand that it is the whole team that should be looked at and that is something which people sometimes don’t understand. “I have been given the opportunity to play in this derby and I have worked hard for it. “Of course I get backing from the technical management and I want to give special mention to my goalkeeper coach Vukusic Ivica, he has pushed me from day one since he got here. “He said it straight that he wants to see me back in the national team and I’m slowly getting to my best, I just need to be consistent.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za