It only takes a quick look at the Peugeot 3008 and 5008 crossover SUVs to see they’re more luxurious models than we are used to expecting from the French automaker. But there’s now going to be even more affordable luxury in the 3008 and 5008 ranges with the introduction of a new GT-Line Premium trim level for both vehicles. These new additions to the portfolios of the two crossovers will combine the versatility of the current GT Line trim level, with a healthy dose of the luxury features of the range-topping GT models. There will also be a great deal of diversity available with the GT-Line Premium trim levels as there will be a number of different engine options available, meaning buyers can choose a more affordable option or a more powerful model, depending on their needs and budget. Entry-level versions will come with a 1.2-liter PureTech 130 S&S engine, while the most powerful and expensive versions will feature the 2.0-liter BlueHDi 150 S&S. Among the features included with a GT-Line Premium 3008 or 5008 are the Open and Go keyless entry and push-button start system, a foot-operated smart electric tailgate, a multi-point massage function driver’s seat, heated front seats and a panoramic opening glass roof. The roof is then flanked by some very fetching blue ambient lighting, and on the outside, a set of 19-inch ‘Washington’ two-tone diamond-cut alloy wheels mark these models out as something special. Peugeot’s UK Marketing Director, Mark Pickles, said of the new models, “From what we have seen of the impressive sales to date and recognition at industry awards, people are attracted by the diversity and quality of both the Peugeot 3008 SUV and all-new 5008 SUV. The broad range of features available on these two models have made them the astounding success they are, and we want to ensure any customer can experience that. By adding an all-new trim level that incorporates some of the most popular features at a competitive price — and with a host of engine choices available — we’re confident that the GT Line Premium will be a real crowd-pleaser for 2018.” -Relaxnews