THE EFF yesterday came out daggers drawn against Malusi Gigaba, demanding President Cyril Ramaphosa give him the boot. EFF leader Julius Malema tore into Gigaba during a media briefing and claimed he was a beneficiary of “Zuma’s patronage networks”. “We cannot afford to have another day with Gigaba in office. That crook Malusi Gigaba who illegally granted the Gupta family citizenship must not be allowed to deliver the budget,” Malema said. His comments came against the backdrop of Ramaphosa being elected president yesterday following the resignation of Jacob Zuma on Wednesday as head of state. Malema also took a swipe at Zuma and insisted the former president resigned to spare himself the humiliation of being removed as state president through a no-confidence vote. “It should be highlighted that Jacob Zuma did not resign because of his political conviction. “He resigned because he knew that if he did not do so, he was going to be humiliated and embarrassed by the EFF-led motion of no confidence, which was guaranteed 99% success in the National Assembly,” he said. He charged that Zuma could not claim any bragging rights for free higher education for poor and working class students. “We must further dispel the claims that Zuma gave free education to the country. Free education was a result of the Fees Must Fall generation which brought Zuma’s government screaming and kicking to the table to concede fee free education,” he said. Malame vowed that the EFF would not take part in the election of Ramaphosa as state president. “The EFF will not participate in the election of a new president to replace Zuma because we do not want to legitimise anyone from the ruling party. As a result, the EFF will call on the dissolution of parliament in favour of early elections,” Malema sad. “If the ANC of Ramaphosa is honest and truly seeks a new and stable future, it must agree to the call for early elections. Because this parliament has been complicit in creating the personality cult that is Jacob Zuma,” he said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO