PRESENTED and then elected as the only candidate to be president of the Republic of South Africa, Cyril Ramaphosa promised to address issues such as corruption and state capture in his State of the Nation address tonight. Ramaphosa was elected unopposed as president during a sitting of the National Assembly overseen by chief justice Mogoeng Mogoeng yesterday. He was sworn in as president in Tuynhuys, the president’s official office in the Parliamentary precinct, shortly after 5.15pm last night. In Parliament yesterday, the chief justice declared the result at 2.32pm. Tonight President Ramaphosa will deliver his first Sona to a joint sitting of the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces. In his first speech as president in the Assembly, Ramaphosa said yesterday that when one was elected to that kind of position one basically became a servant of the people. “South Africa must come first in everything that we all do,” he said. He pledged he would fill his position with humility, faithfulness and dignity. He pledged to work closer together with opposition parties, committed to improve the lives of all South Africans, as well as foster unity. He also agreed with the PAC that it was not yet Uhuru. Invited by Mbete to address the National Assembly at 3pm, Ramaphosa recounted how he had encountered the chief justice earlier. They had joked about the judicial robe that the chief justice has to wear when on duty. “We had a bit of conversation in the end I said well I seemed to have taken on a much more difficult task. The chief justice laughed at me,” Ramaphosa said. Thanking the House for the honour bestowed upon him, the newly elected president said he was humbled by the privilege of being able to serve South Africa. “This for me is a truly humbling occasion.” Confessing that he would miss being a member of the House, Ramaphosa pledged that he would come to the House regularly to be accountable and answer questions. “One of the things that I will be seeking to do is what I started doing when I became deputy president. I will seek to work with all political parties.” He said he would start off with a meeting with leaders of all political parties “so we can start to work together”. Ramaphosa had a sharp word for DA leader Mmusi Maimane who, despite congratulating him, tried to do a bit of electioneering for 2019. “I think he’s running ahead of himself. Honourable Maimane I’m going to see you regularly in this House. Let’s us work together rather than grandstanding,” Ramaphosa said. Former ANC member and the leader of the UDM Gen Bantu Holomisa told President Ramaphosa he had made an “abrupt rise to the highest office in the land”. “You have brought the toxic leadership of Mr Zuma to the ground.” news@thenewage.co.za