FOLLOWING the return of key players to the action, Kaizer Chiefs coach Steve Komphela has got reason to smile as he feels he finally has a complete outfit. Despite enjoying some good results recently, Komphela is pleased that the likes of Ramahlwe Mphahlele and Bernard Parker are back in the team and getting a headache about who to choose going forward won’t bother him that much. “I think we now have good enough squad to face anyone,” Komphela said. “I include Siyabonga Ngezana who was not even in the squad against Golden Arrows and then there’s one of the best defenders around in Eric Mathoho on the bench. “And we still have a whole lot of others, such as Bongolwethu Jayiya and Dumisani Zuma.” Komphela is also pleased to see the commitment of right back Mphahlele who returned to action on Sunday against Golden Arrows. Mphahlele has been out of action since last year due to the injury and Komphela feels they will benefit from his experience. “He said to one of the staff members, ‘you coaches are in another world. You are unbelievable in terms of your thinking. You have just committed the worse mistake of your life’ and I asked what he meant and he said ‘by not playing me’. “That’s a player who is committed to the course, that he was waiting for this opportunity to be granted to him and he grabs it and justifies his words. “Now the challenge is as a coach what do you do. You do justice because you know the man is committed to the course.” Komphela can even afford to bench their best player Siphiwe Tshabalala and still get a result. “You can’t question his experience and his ability. “His qualities will never be diminished and how we go on in terms of selection and who will be for the best interest of both the club and the team. “We felt against Arrows that Philani Zulu can do the job and he did. “We also felt let’s give a chance to Siphelele Ntshangase. We know he could have done a bit better but it is also an opportunity for him to have the feel of starting in a big match.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za