THE announcement of the imminent Cabinet reshuffle came suddenly – an hour before it was to happen – but in the end President Cyril Ramaphosa made us wait a bit longer before he announced the most-anticipated news so far this year. The business community was broadly happy with the key portfolios being given to old hands that they generally like and trust. “Markets don’t care about the dead wood that Ramaphosa decided to keep in his Cabinet. What is favourable to the market is that the key economic cluster has been changed completely and those who were promoting state capture are gone,” Iraj Abedian, CEO of Pan-African Capital, said. However, Abedian insisted that there was a lot of compromise evident in the new Cabinet, such as Gwede Mantashe popping up to replace the dodgy Minister of Mineral Resources, Mosebenzi Zwane. Lobby group Business Leadership SA CEO Bonang Mohale said the longawaited change was an important confidence-booster in the quest to restore growth and create jobs. “We now urge the President to speed up the process of reviewing the size and configuration of his Cabinet and national departments so as to demonstrate his commitment to austerity,” he said. Economist Azar Jammine was impressed with the economic portfolios but lamented the retention of some ministers associated with state capture, “which casts doubts on the fight against corruption”. “The markets will be cautious about the pro-Zuma supporters such as David Mabuza, Deputy President, given his controversial background,” he said. Prof Raymond Parsons of NWU School of Governance and Business, said the changes showed political compromise. Nomvula Mokonyane’s appointment to the communications portfolio was slammed. William Bird, executive director of Media Monitoring Africa, was quoted in The Media Online as saying he would have hoped for the convergence of the departments of post and telecommunications, and communications. “Instead we find ourselves with the fourth minister of communications in less than 12 months and with a person who has damning allegations hanging over her head.” Other business lobby groups also gave the outcome of the reshuffle the thumbsup and regard the return of Nene as market friendly and good for business confidence. The rand opened trading at R11.56/$, but later lost some gains to trade at R11.67 just before 4pm – a 1% loss – but some market watchers believed it would break below R11.50/$. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za