THE provincial MEC for transport, community safety and liaison, Mxolisi Kaunda, has called for tougher action against errant drivers as road carnage continues in the province. Kaunda was speaking after the death of eight people in an accident along the R56 between Umzimkhulu and Rietvlei when a minibus taxi collided with a bakkie. “We are saddened by this latest fatal crash, which again shows the damaging effect of drivers who disregard road traffic rules and signs. “Our traffic team will investigate the exact causes of the crash and ensure that we are all well informed about what transpired,” Kaunda said. The MEC called on traffic law enforcement agencies to speed up the investigation into a the fatal crash and urged the court to impose tougher sentences on errant drivers. “In this regard, we have already begun to engage magistrates and prosecutors to sensitise them about the importance of imposing harsher sentences on negligent drivers. “We are also persuading them to classify road traffic offences as schedule five cases,” Kaunda said. A few weeks ago, eight family members, including four children, were also killed on the N2 in Umzumbe. The deceased were all passengers in a VW Golf that collided head-on with a Ford Ranger bakkie near the south coast town. The driver of the bakkie, who escaped unharmed, was arrested and charged with eight counts of culpable homicide and driving under the influence. “These fatal crashes are a clear indication that we need to work harder to change the behaviour of our road users, especially drivers. “Despite this tragic crash, we are optimistic that the province is turning the corner in terms of reducing major road crashes,” Kaunda said. The latest spate of road deaths came after a decline in road fatalities during the recent festive season when road fatalities in the province dropped from 361 in the 2016-17 festive period to 324 in 2017-18. A total of 279 road crashes were registered compared to 311 accidents in the previous year. Kaunda called on all stakeholders including drivers, pedestrians and traffic police to work together to minimise road carnage as they had done during the festive season. Meanwhile, department officials have begun contacting the family members of the deceased in the R56 crash to make necessary arrangements to provide the deceased with dignified burials. “Working with the Road Accident Fund, we will also visit those who were injured to ensure that they get necessary assistance,” Kaunda said. sibongisenim@thenewage.co.za -SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO