DA LEADER Mmusi Maimane has slated Malusi Gigaba’s maiden Budget as an assault on the poor. His critical appraisal of the Budget presented in the National Assembly yesterday was representative of the views held by opposition parties, but not of that of the ruling ANC. ANC treasurer Paul Mashatile, who was in the parliamentary gallery with party chairperson Gwede Mantashe, said that in a sense Gigaba had financed the programme announced by the President in the state of the nation address last Friday. “So we are very happy as the ANC.” On the 1% increase in VAT, he said Gigaba had said there was a need to stabilise public finances and reduce debt. “But also he has zero rated basic foodstuffs for the poor and also increased social grants. So there are mitigating factors there.” Mashatile said that the increases would enable Gigaba to increase revenue, which will enable him to get some money to finance important programmes like free higher education. “In the circumstances we find ourselves in, I think there were some tough and difficult choices,” Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies said. I’m pleased that what’s come out of this is that the programmes to support economic growth and development and inclusively will continue to be funded.” What was important, he said, was “that the one variable in all of this that changes the equation is a higher level of economic growth”. Maimane said the budget was an assault on the poor. “I would hope that we begin to grow our economy so that people can be able to find work but what we saw today is a consequence of nine years of mismanagement under the ANC. “While the ANC has been stealing from South Africa for the last number of years today poor South Africans are going to pay for it. Today we saw an increase in VAT which is going to put inflationary pressure on poor South Africans,” he said. Steve Swart of the ACDP said if law enforcement agencies were empowered they could recover the billions that have been stolen. It was estimated that R100bn was being lost annually through state capture and corruption. “If we recover that it’s unnecessary to increase VAT which will impact the poorest of the poor. We believe zero rated items need to be increased, social grants need to be increased by far more than the marginal increases in the revenue cycle. But we believe firmly state expenditure can be increased by radically reducing corruption and fraudulent expenditure.” The IFP’s Mkhuleko Hlengwa said: “This was unavoidable really. But at the same time we must welcome the cushion which has been given to certain products which will enable the poor households to continue to get food.” However, the IFP was quite concerned at the fact there was a VAT hike and also a fuel levy increase “because that would mean the cost of travel and the transporting of food will increase, thus negatively affecting the majority our people”. The fact that the first step towards free education has been taken was an indication that things were looking rather positive. “Of course the projection of 1% growth we must take with a pinch of salt it may be a honeymoon projection after the ANC conference,” he said. Freedom Front Plus leader Pieter Groenewald called for South Africa’s tax base to be broadened. On free education, he said there should be a precondition that students must pass an academic year before they could qualify for a further year. Nqabayomzi Kwankwa of the UDM said his party was disappointed with the VAT increase, adding that the government was taking from the poor to fund the country’s needs rather than going for corporate income tax. news@thenewage.co.za