DISCOVERY member company Vitality Group has produced strong results with membership growing 49% to more than 1.7 million, Discovery said yesterday. Vitality Group operates a business providing wellness solutions to employer groups across the world with its main offices in South Africa and the US. The wellness group partners with insurers AIA, Generali, John Hancock, Manulife and Sumitomo Life across the world to launch and grow Vitality shared-value insurance in their markets. Vitality Group is also responsible for Discovery’s 25% equity investment in Ping An Health, the largest comprehensive medical insurer in China. Vitality Group says it has broken even, with operating profit of $100000 (R1.2m) for the six months ended December largely driven by new “business growth of insurance partners and efficiencies gained from merging the US and SA international operations”. The financial dynamics of Vitality Group involve a largely fixed cost base and rapidly-growing fee income from insurance partners which was up 39% over the half-year. This, the group said, gave it confidence that the Vitality Group will reach its target of achieving R300m to R500m operating profit in two to four years’ time. Last year, Discovery Bank was granted a banking licence subject to certain conditions relating to the shareholding in Discovery Bank. The health insurer said the shareholders of the bank werey in discussions to agree how best to manage these conditions. The proposed purchase of the Discovery-branded FirstRand Bankissued credit card business and book is subject to Competition Commission approval. Discovery Bank is testing its capabilities with live testing of system infrastructure, operating processes and regulatory engagement. The group will launch its proposed banking offering to the public this year. Spend to date is R1.2bn and this is expected to reach R1.5bn by launch. The group says its prospects for continued growth are “compelling”. “Discovery’s established businesses are all well positioned in their markets, its emerging businesses are insurgent, and four substantial businesses will be launched during 2018. “This gives the group confidence of ongoing growth into the future.” -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za