ON SUNDAY evening Volsloorus businesswoman Dipuo Lata wrote a frantic message about her 12-year-old daughter being in the hands of armed highjackers. She had been driving with her daughter in Clayville, Midrand, when three men held her at gunpoint, threw her out of the car and drove off with her daughter. Lata posted a picture of her car registration, CD40MVGP and her plea for her daughter’s safety on Facebook. “Tonight 8.30pm, my daughter and I were held up at gunpoint and the car was taken from us in Clayville, Olifantsfontein, by three men. “I am traumatised, there was a gun pointed at me. I was fighting for my child. I begged him to please throw Thandeka out. “His accomplice was happy to drive off with her. These people are heartless,” she posted. More than 400 people shared her post yesterday morning and later in the day she announced that her daughter had been found safe. “Thandeka is safe with me. Traumatised but unharmed. They ultimately released her and took off with the car. It’s all in the hands of the police now. The car will be found and returned eventually. We trust the process. Thank you for your message of support,” Lata said. Speaking to The New Age, she said she was still grateful that her daughter was safe but said they would need counselling. “The saddest and most traumatising was seeing grown men pointing a gun at my daughter. “We are too traumatised, she is brave because she managed to go to school today. “Any good Samaritan, please assist us with counselling,” she said. Lata is self-employed. She went to that area to deliver products to one of her clients. Meanwhile, investigations are continuing in the case of a police captain who was arrested by members of the Gauteng anti-corruption unit after he had demanded money from the father of a suspect who had been arrested on charges of drunk driving. A complaint about the allegations of corruption were made to a court prosecutor who then alerted the police. Police responded and arrested the suspect. He is being detained and is due to appear in the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court soon. ntombin@thenewage.co.za -NTOMBI NKOSI