Rising Kaizer Chiefs star Ryan Moon warned leaders Mamelodi Sundowns that the South African title race is not over after scoring the goal that defeated Cape Town City 1-0 Saturday. Victory at Soccer City stadium in Soweto lifted the four-time Premiership champions three places to second, four points behind the pacesetters with nine rounds remaining. “The title race is far from over,” stressed the 24-year-old from eastern city Pietermaritzburg, who played for a local club before joining Chiefs two years ago. “We have to keep winning, to keep the pressure on Sundowns. Chiefs are a great team and I am proud to be part of it. “The more often I score the more confident I become,” he said after notching his fourth league goal this season to settle a match of few clearcut chances. Moon nearly added a second goal in stoppage time, but his close range shot off an intercept was brilliantly tipped over the bar by goalkeeper Sage Stephens. “So far, so good. I could have had a hat-trick tonight,” said the younger brother of former South Africa defender Bryce Moon. The winner came two minutes into the second half when Moon punished hesitancy by two Cape Town defenders to push the ball under Stephens and into the net. Sixth-place City nearly levelled 11 minutes from time when Sibusiso Masina had a shot parried by goalkeeper Itumeleng Khune and Zimbabwean Teenage Hadebe cleared the loose ball off the line. Record seven-time champions Sundowns have 38 points, Chiefs 34, Orlando Pirates 33, Free State Stars 32 and Maritzburg United and Cape Town 31 in the standings. “Too many of my players did not turn up tonight. We were nowhere near our best,” lamented Cape Town coach and former South Africa star Benni McCarthy. “We were second to every loose ball and Chiefs made us look sluggish. They deprived us of time and space.” At the other end of the table, defending champions Wits continued a revival after woeful early-season form by winning 2-1 at Golden Arrows to climb four places to 10th. -AFP