FOLLOWING the release of ANC branch secretary Thabiso Setona, caught on camera assaulting a woman supporter of the BLF near Luthuli House, the police yesterday said once the investigations were concluded his docket would be referred back to court. Setona, who represented Joburg Zone 12, has been suspended by the ANC. The action involving Olivia Makete was put into disarray when he walked away from a likely charge of assault as she hasn’t laid a charge against him. Setona handed himself over at the Johannesburg police station on the day of the incident. “Setona was taken to the Johannesburg Magistrate’s Court on Tuesday, but the case was not placed on the roll due to further investigation that must be conducted. Once the investigation has been concluded, the docket will be referred back to court for a decision,” Gauteng police spokesperson Lt-Col Lungelo Dlamini said. The clashes between anti- and pro-Zuma supporters outside ANC’s headquarters on Monday saw Setona caught red-handed on camera physically assaulting Makete, who belongs to the lobby group, Black First Land First (BLF), which was spearheading a “hands-off President Jacob Zuma” protest. In a statement issued on Tuesday, Setona said: “I apologise unequivocally for my heinous acts against an innocent woman. “I extend my apology not only to the victim I caused grievous harm to, but to her family, the ANC and South Africa at large.” Setona is set to appear before the ANC’s disciplinary committee. One of the charges he would face would be bringing the party into disrepute. Meanwhile, the BLF said Makete was from Orange Farm Extension 10 and was an unemployed mother of two children. It said she had been injured and was struggling to walk. “Makete is being medically examined and we want to make sure the perpetrator returns behind bars,” BLF treasurer-general Thandiswa Yaphi said. The BLF opened a case at Orange Farm police station on Tuesday and demanded the police and the Independent Police Investigation Directorate gather evidence from footage taken at Luthuli House. news@thenewage.co.za -REFILWE MAGASHULE