A DUTCH couple were robbed while hiking in the Wilderness in the southern Cape this week. The South African National Parks (SANParks) rangers and police are on alert after the couple were mugged on a trail in the Wilderness but no arrests have been made. The Garden Routes National Park said after the incident was reported to officials, it increased range patrols on the Brown Hooded trail. Garden Route National Park manager Paddy Gordon said: “Rangers responded immediately. They went out to the site to look for evidence and questioned the victims for descriptions of the perpetrators. “In the meantime, we’ve been speaking to police to find out what can be done, what the risk is in the area and which resources can be allocated to the problem. We received the news with shock at 2.30pm and immediately responded by increasing the number of rangers patrolling the Brown Hooded trail.” He said the couple were robbed of their valuables. “They are staying in a private establishment close to the national park. Upon hearing news of the robbery, SANParks rangers and SAPS immediately went to look for suspects as described by the victims,” he said. Gordon said the couple waere expected to attend a trauma debriefing session organised by the police. “While the SAPS continues to search for the suspects, SANParks has escalated the number of patrols on the trail and continues to engage the Policing Forum for Wilderness,” he said. Gordon said while this was the first criminal incident reported in Wilderness, SANParks was requesting all visitors not to make expensive valuables visible while on trails. “This includes jewellery, cameras, cellphones and other things,” he said. Gordon said the Brown Hooded trail was a three-hour linear route which was about 5km with hikers crossing the Duiwe river at least five times while on the trail. In another hiking attack incident last month, a 56-year-old man was stabbed to death while hiking with his wife in Echo Valley above Kalk Bay on Sunday. This comes two weeks after a group of nine people were ambushed by knifewielding attackers in the Silvermine Nature Reserve. At least 85 attacks on hikers have been recorded over the past 12 months. At the beginning of the year, Parliament’s tourism portfolio committee said it was concerned that the recent spike in attacks on hikers on the mountain may affect tourism. Tourism committee chairperson Beatrice Ngcobo said tourists may become too afraid to visit Cape Town, South Africa’s key international tourist destination. Meanwhile, in a missing person incident last year, a private investigator described how he located the body of Charlotte “Nana Yaa” Nikoi, who went missing on Table Mountain on Human Rights Day. The private investigator said that Ghanaian national Nikoi was found with her cellphone, wallet and passport, thus ruling out foul play. The associate director of the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (Unicef) went missing on March 21 while hiking with her family on Table Mountain. The couple and their daughter were in Cape Town to celebrate their 22nd wedding anniversary. Paul Scheepers, owner of Eagle Solutions Technology, said the husband and UN then contacted him to help find Charlotte. He said Table Mountain needed clearer trail signs as it appeared Charlotte took a wrong turn and got lost. “Pathologists could not determine the cause of death because the body was badly decomposed, but they suspect natural causes and found no indication of foul play,” he said. news@thenewage.co.za -TATENDA CHIRISERI