ININJA, a song by Durban-based kwaito and gqom trio Love Devon and Peekay, was one of the biggest songs of 2017, both on the airwaves and on the dance floors. With the festive hype having died down a bit, The New Age decided to connect with South Africa’s first gqom female trio, made up of Sanelisiwe Ngema, Dulcie Mthembu and Kwenzi Madwe about their plans for the new year. Initially, going by the name Love Devotion and later adopting the Love Devon and Peekay moniker following Madwe’s introduction in 2014, they have since gone on to take dance floors by storm with a number of hits under their belt including the most popular one Ininja, the dance floor anthem that has made them a household name. The rising queens of the local dance scene from Kwadukuza, promised their legion of followers more hits as they cement their place in the local music industry. Ngema said: “The feedback to our music has been encouraging and we promise our fans more dance floor hits and that is a promise we will keep as we look to release our album this year. But before we release the album, we already have another single, Umandlovu, lined up for them. The song seeks to inspire women, especially young girls, to remain strong and never lose their morals.” Ngema said the reason they chose to do kwaito and gqom was because not many women were at the forefront of this dance inspired music genre. Mthembu said: “There are many women doing hip hop, soul and jazz, but there are not many who do what we do. We realised if we do kwaito with a new twist of dance we would be able to inspire other young women and show them that this can be done.” The rise to the top was preceded by the release of their hottest and popular track in KwaZulu-Natal, Fak’ unyawo, which garnered more than 10 000 views on YouTube in the first week of release. With the promise of a new single, an album and community based initiatives to inspire the youth, the group is on the verge of becoming one of the country’s leading female kwaito artists. They have done it with the hit song, which features Lindokuhle Khumalo (Dapid) and now are about to do it for themselves and their fans. “We can’t wait to treat our fans to new music and show them what we are all about. We want to surprise our fans with lots of new music and make them dance because that is our mission,” Mthembu said. siyabongas@thenewage.co.za