AS THREATS by the EFF to disrupt the now postponed state of the nation address, Parliament has not decided yet if it will enforce sanctions against 20 EFF members found guilty of contempt and participating in disruptive and disorderly conduct. The group, including party leader Julius Malema and chief whip Floyd Shivambu, were red-carded after they tried to sabotage President Jacob Zuma’s appearance to answer questions in the National Assembly on August 21, 2014. They chanted “pay back the money” as they vented their feelings about upgrades at his Nkandla homestead. In deciding punitive action against them, Parliament’s powers and privileges committee resolved that a group of EFF MPs, including Malema and Shivambu, would be suspended for 30 days without remuneration. A second group was to be suspended for 14 days, also without pay. A third group was also ordered to apologise to the National Assembly, fined an equivalent of 14 days’ salary and any allowances payable to them. The National Assembly accepted these recommendations. The EFF took the matter to the Cape Town High Court and in December 2014, judge Dennis Davis, in an interim judgment, ruled that the sanctions of the powers and privileges committee be set aside. Parliament took judge Davis’ ruling on appeal. Last month, the Cape High Court unanimously set aside Davis’s judgment. In dismissing the judgment, the high court set aside the interim order that interdicted Parliament from implementing sanctions, including suspensions. The court said: “It is no exaggeration to say that the proceedings of Parliament on August 21, 2014, descended into chaos due to the conduct of the applicants. “Each and every institution has rules constituting a cornerstone on which such an institution is built. Once rules are transgressed or overlooked the proceedings under way in any institution descend into chaos. Chaos having taken over, it becomes impossible for the process intended to be proceeded with to advance.” The court said that Parliament in its wisdom had designed and promulgated these rules. “The least expected of members of Parliament is to adhere to them to enable Parliament as an institution to function and achieve whatever is scheduled for the session.” Parties could challenge the rules in a properly and an orderly fashion. “Parliamentary debates on issues for the session can and do remain robust and uncompromising without proceedings descending into chaos and disorderliness. Ill-discipline, chaos and disorderliness are the very antithesis of good Parliamentary practice and the decorum with which the house is clothed.” -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN