DESPITE Cape Town’s water shortage woes, Mamelodi Sundowns won’t be in a merciful mood when they clash against Cape Town All Stars in their Nedbank Cup showdown at Athlone Stadium on Friday night. Just last week Sundowns grabbed their first victory over Cape Town City in four attempts after striker Percy Tau produced a moment of pure magic to find Khama Billiat, who scored in the top of the net to show that Sundowns are a team on a mission. For Pitso Mosimane’s side, this will be a chance for players who have not had a lot of game time, such as Lucky Mohomi, Anthony Laffor, Thabo Nthethe, goalkeeper Razak Brimah, Thokozani Sekotlong and new signing Siyabonga Zulu, to stake their claim for starting places. Having only started matches from the bench, Aubrey Ngoma, who is more familiar with Cape Town due to his time spent with City, may find himself in a starring role for the team that will be under the tutelage of assistant coach Manqoba Mngqithi on the night. The Brazilians are working on the confidence of their players, especially new signing Jeremy Brockie, who has not found the back of the net in the games that he has played against Kaizer Chiefs and City. The New Zealand striker did come close against Chiefs, but the crossbar denied him. Despite his barren run in two matches, Sundowns assistant coach Manqoba Mngqithi said the club is happy with the contribution of the former SuperSport United striker. “We are satisfied with what Jeremy has done. You must remember that it is a short space of time, he is coming from a team that plays differently from us,” Mngqithi said. “The adaptation process never takes a short period of time. “We know what he can do and I am sure he knows what he can do and that is the reason why we have him here,” the Sundowns assistant said. Sundowns may look at the clash against All Stars as a fairly easy one as the Cape Town outfit have won just one of their last five matches. But with players such as former Ajax Cape Town and Bloemfontein Celtic man Ruzaigh Gamildien, Sydney Masana and Itumeleng Shopane, Sundowns will have to be on top of their game to leave the Mother City with a victory. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za