Primedia Broadcasting CEO Omar Essack has denied claims of a friendship between himself and the company’s former Chief Commercial Officer Mark Jakins. Jakins resigned from the company on Monday after allegations of sexual misconduct were brought against him. Jakins stepped down before investigations could be concluded after he was charged with three counts of sexual misconduct. Essack denied accusations going around on several social media platforms that the company did not want to name Jakins saying Primedia wanted to ensure that the process was sped up and fair. “Just in terms of process, pace, speed and efficiency, we have to balance and respect the privacy and dignity of our staff with the fairness of the legal processes that we have. It’s all enshrined in our code of conduct that we all sign up for when we work,” Essack said. Essack told 702 breakfast presenter Bongani Bingwa that he heard of the sexual misconduct on 13 February when the charges were brought. He also denied knowing of previous sexual misconduct allegations against Jakins and covering up for him. “I must be abundantly clear because this accusation was made, I had the CIO of the company forensically check emails that were sent to me and I can categorically state that there was not a single email alleging any behaviour about this particular executive.” “Not a single complaint came to me. So, there’s a suggestion that’s circulating on social media that implies that I was informed prior to this particular incident and I have to make it abundantly clear to everyone that it’s the first time I got to know about this incident, this sort of behaviour.” He however admitted to being the one who recruited the disgraced former manager to the station but denied being his personal friend. “No, that’s categorically not true, I’m not a personal friend of Mark Jakins. I have known him for a very long time and so many of Mark’s fellow team members. But yes, I recruited him to the company.” Jakins in his resignation letter said he apologised to his team for his conduct. He denied having had other sexual misconduct transgressions in the past, as several social media users alleged. “As to media reports of any prior incidences, I am not aware of these but they are without merit and vehemently denied. I respectfully request privacy during this traumatic time,” Jakins said in his resignation letter. -TNA Reporter