A LOT of factors – such as patience, perseverance and determination – can be learnt from Denis Onyango’s stay at Mamelodi Sundowns that sees him edge closer to becoming the club’s greatest goalkeeper. Well, that is if one’s greatness is measured by consistent performances, trophies won with the team and those that a player wins individually. As Sundowns hunt for their eighth PSL title, Onyango is hunting for what will be his fifth since he was brought to South Africa by then SuperSport United and current Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane. That ambition, the MTN8 title and winning the CAF Champions League again are what keeps the Uganda national team captain motivated, but something much deeper made him hold on to his Sundowns dream even when it looked bleak. After winning three PSL titles with SuperSport United, Onyango joined Sundowns, but made just one start – against Free State Stars – in his first two years with the Tshwane giants. Even at that time, ideas of moving away from the club never crossed his mind – with Wayne Sandilands and Calvin Marlin preferred over him. But when Kennedy Mwenee joined from Free State Stars, the now 32 year old asked for a loan move to Wits, but the dream was the same. To make it work at Sundowns. “I always wanted to play for a big team and with that, I knew challenges would come. “When I went on loan, even though I had won the league, I knew that I had made a big step up by joining Sundowns. “I knew something about my game would have to go up and I worked on that. When I became No 1, I still had to work hard,” Onyango said. “Loans have a way of showing you the bigger picture. Of waking you from a slumber if you were not serious. Look at Percy Tau. “One loan move and he was reminded that Sundowns is the best. He is now back and he’s the best in the league. Harry Kane in England too went through the loan process. Now he is among the best in Europe,” Onyango said. With Sundowns on top of the log with 38 points from 20 matches, ahead of second-placed Orlando Pirates by five points with a game in hand, Onyango said he wants to keep going. While he does that, he won’t forget the people who helped him along the way such as Mosimane, Milutin Sredejovic and Gavin Hunt. “The work and patience that Micho, Pitso and Gavin showed me resulted in me being the African player of the year and becoming the first player from Uganda to win the Champions League. “Pitso signed me after watching me for only one game. I had to repay him. “Now I want to repay Sundowns for the two years that I was getting paid, but only playing one match. I have won five trophies, but there are three I really want, the league, the Champions League and MTN8,” the goalkeeper said. Having achieved everything in South Africa, Onyango said he wants to make a big difference in Ugandan football. “My success may have been here, but the dream started in Uganda. Someone there gave me a head-start. I want to do the same to kids there and for my kids too,” the Sundowns keeper said. • Sundowns will be in action next Wednesday in a PSL match against Free State Stars. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za