FOR some, facing an old employer who has taught them all they know in the trade, if not in a match situation, then in a championship fight, may seem a bit daunting. However, in Oupa Manyisa’s case such thoughts do not even cross his mind as he said that helping Mamelodi Sundowns to league glory – which will mean beating his former club Orlando Pirates – is nothing personal. Sundowns are top of the log with 38 points, five more than Pirates, while they also enjoy a game in hand. A league title win this season will extend Sundowns’ overall titles to an impressive tally of eight. With just 10 matches left for the Brazilians this season, Manyisa has urged his teammates to be careful and not slip up when it matters most. “People think we are just being boring when we say we have to take each game as it comes. “But when you see the importance of the upcoming matches, you can understand that we cannot afford to slip up,” Manyisa said. “I want to win the league again. It has been a while since I have experienced that feeling. It is not even personal that I have to help Sundowns. “They are my team now. I’m happy that Pirates are playing well again but I want to win the league for Sundowns.” Apart from winning several man of the match awards in a midfield that includes Tiyani Mabunda and Hlompho Kekana, Manyisa said he is working around the clock to get back to his best. For him that could also mean a return to Bafana Bafana, exactly what the 29-year-old midfielder desires most. “Everyone at the club will tell you that I do not feel I am where I need to be. I may have won man of the match here and there but I know when I am at my best. That is why I am working so hard and it really helps to have Mabunda and Kekana next to me. “At the end of the day, my best could not only see me hold down a place at Sundowns but also take me back to Bafana. That is where I want to be, and my club coach Pitso Mosimane has also said that he wants me playing for the national side.” The Brazilians will be back in action on Wednesday against PSL dark horses Free State Stars at Loftus Versfeld. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|masekepem@thenewage.co.za