How have we arrived here? How on earth did we weather this turbulent storm as a people only to miss a notice board on the road that says you have your destiny in your hands? The answer may not be as simple as many may suggest. South Africa is no longer a pubescent nation. Yet it is an irony that we have to look back to the halcyon years of this great nation with nostalgia. The land of hope has now become a land where despair rears its ugly head. Who is to blame for the precarious state of affairs? Many would hasten to mention names. I, for one, prefer to be pragmatic and diplomatic in this article. I should not discredit any particular individuals who are oblivious to the plight of many South Africans. It is always worthwhile to remember that “failure is attributed to one – but victory is claimed by all.” However, to ignore how leadership should conduct itself in public office would be to negate my duty as a citizen. President Jacob Zuma has been a maverick who assumed the highest office in the land. The odds, to say the least, were set against him from the beginning. It would be plausible to assume that when he embarked on his political career, his primary objective was to fight the injustices of the apartheid regime. He is a child of the 1940s, in a decade that saw instability the world over. It was in turmoil. Closer to home a right-wing party was to win the election that would indefinitely affect the character of our South Africa. Many people had to take a stand regardless of peril. Like or loathe him, Zuma was among those who would not be cowed by a repressive regime. This is not a hagiography but an attempt to merely express some facts. We might assume that Zuma had a sense of duty from his early years. He was, as many have alluded, self-educated. This displays a streak of indomitable will. My first encounter with President Zuma was by accident. This was on June 16, 1996. The then MEC would, as fate would have it, be instrumental in deposing as the head of state, the then deputy president Thabo Mbeki. But of that encounter Zuma’s remarks were to be etched in my memory indelibly. He rightly lauded those who fought apartheid, but seemed to berate those who pursued education. It wasn’t clear to me whether he had reservations about education or was he aggrieved by those he deemed to have idly relinquished a just course of revolutionary action in pursuit of it? This was an individual who wouldn’t let anyone hinder his path to national prominence. After all, he was part of the delegation along with Nelson Mandela that played a vital role in the Codesa negotiations. How fortune seemed to favour a person from humble beginnings in KZN. This freedom fighter had a clear resolve. The champion of the dispossessed and the epitome of a free South Africa would eventually ascend the mountain top – but not without challenges from within his own party. Zuma’s tenure has been the most divisive in our democratic country. We can’t pretend that his ascendancy to the ANC presidency was not without recriminations and factions. Was this a sign of things to come? It is one thing to be a liberation hero and another to carry the hopes of all 55 million people, regardless of race. Zuma was given the huge responsibility to serve and protect all South Africans. His challenge was to inspire confidence that he would be able to govern in earnest and thus prove the cynics wrong. In his first term the stars aligned. Barely a year after taking office the greatest spectacle in the sporting world was to be hosted by South Africa under his watch. Any unfortunate incident would mar his first year in office and he would bear the brunt of media scrutiny. This was an event where he had to galvanise South Africa and prove that he is a statesman. Zuma delivered a safe and secure tournament. This would contribute to his legacy. Some might argue that it was not him who had managed to secure such a prestigious tournament, rightly so. But he was the captain who ensured that the ship was safely steered to reach an intended destination. Furthermore, Zuma would ensure that he succeeded where his predecessor fell short. He decided against meddling with healthcare policies regarding Aids. He let medical experts do their work without fear or favour. This increased life expectancy in South Africa. Despite all his shortcomings this is a jewel in the crown of his diminished presidency. However, Zuma is human after all. How he assumed power was nothing short of Machiavellian. A man who once united South Africans during the World Cup is now a figure that has polarised opinion. The ANC is imploding I question whether this is the making of a sole individual or the ill-discipline of an organisation. Will the fragmented ANC deprive Zuma of adding to his legacy? South Africa will somehow rise like Zuma from the ashes of despair, but his party may never fully recover. Eric Majola is a writer and commentator