THE ceasefire which prevailed in Parliament last Friday night and allowed an incident-free delivery of the state of the nation address (Sona) is over and political hostilities will resume in the House today when opposition parties respond to President Cyril Ramaphosa. Unlike his predecessor, former president Jacob Zuma, President Ramaphosa could take off his journey in explaining the road to be travelled by the government this year in safety. Even the EFF, which made it its mission to make president Zuma’s life a misery in Parliament behaved itself by its standards. But today will be a different matter all together. Starting at 10am and due to finish at 7pm, opposition parties will have their chance to give their advice to President Ramaphosa and dig holes in his first Sona. To show there is no unanimity among opposition parties on everything, some, such as the EFF, will probably also praise President Ramaphosa for announcing policies such as expropriating land without compensation. No such praise can be expected from the DA on the matter. But there will be a chorus of voices excoriating him for not choosing a new Cabinet and dropping some of the Cabinet Ministers most criticised by opposition parties. They include Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, Public Enterprises Minister Lynne Brown, Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Des van Rooyen and the Minister of Social Development Bathabile Dlamini. At a press conference last week, EFF leader Julius Malema undertook to give President Ramaphosa a trouble-free Sona, but he set certain preconditions. Among them was the axing of Gigaba. No doubt the Finance Minister will be a popular attack target today, not only for the EFF, but also for other opposition parties. Though he may be gone, former president Zuma is also likely to feature in the reply by opposition parties. Opposition parties will miss him because he was such an obvious target and for them a prime example of what was wrong with the ANC. Some may even try to link President Ramaphosa with former president Zuma and also opportunistically claim that he did not vote with the opposition when they tendered motions of no confidence against him. No matter the load of criticism that will stream from opposition leaders today, they will also have to change their tactics to respond to the new president. The same old finger-pointing, insulting and disdainful tactics will no longer pay off. If the opposition parties want to gain from the optimism seemingly running through the country then intelligent replies and even constructive engagement will have to be part of their changed approach. After all Parliament with the massive media coverage generated by the new president is a site that can be used win or lose voters. While today will show President Ramaphosa that his short-lived honeymoon with the opposition is over, the toxicity, anger and venom that gushed from the non-ANC side of Parliament when former president Zuma was present in either the National Assembly or National Council of Provinces will be absent. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN|news@thenewage.co.za