IDOLS SA 2017 Top 10 finalist Thokozile Ndimande will star in a new play called Freedom: The Musical at the South African State Theatre from next month. Freedom is a ground-breaking musical by the State Theatre’s artistic director and award winning playwright and director Aubrey Sekhabi. It features Simphele “PdotO” Mnyandu, Simphiwe Ndlovu, Kabelo “Bonafide Billi” Togoe, Motswako Chad da Don and baritone Otto Maidi. A cast of 47 members and a 13-piece band tells the story of Phindile (Simphiwe Ndlovu), a student and leader of the fees must fall movement. Phindile’s life takes a sharp turn after the students’ protest at the Union Buildings in Pretoria. This story is a testament of her determination to triumph regardless of the odds stacked against her by the system. She will stop at nothing to fight for the freedom of students, for free education and ultimately her own freedom. “Freedom is further an examination of crime and violence that is rife in our modern day society. Be it rape, abuse, racism, xenophobia, corruption, and many more are testimonies of the cost of freedom. “The horrific xenophobic attack on a Mozambican Emmanuel Sithole who was pursued and attacked in Alexandra township in 2015, is highlighted in the story of Freedom. The stories of young women like Frances Rasuge, Reeva Steenkamp and Karabo Mokoena, who suffered abuse and perished in the hands of their boyfriends and men in society,
is also plotted,” the theatre said. The music composition by Bonafide who is also making his theatrical debut as a musical director and actor, is raw, gritty and reflects the rhythm and mood of the time with genres of Hip Hop and Kwai-Hop. The newly released Korobela hit single by Bonafide and Chad is also included on the playlist. The play also features the robust choreography of Mduduizi Nhlapo which highlights the urgency of the story. “Sekhabi reunites with his long term creative partner Wilhelm Disbergen who has created a set that befits this new age musical. An album of the musical is planned to be released with a music video during the season,” the theatre said. kutullom@thenewage.co.za