THE net is slowly closing in on government officials who are being arrested for stealing, corruption and other serious crimes. Yesterday, the city of Johannesburg said a female police officer stationed at Protea Glen in Soweto and a male examiner from Aganang local municipality in Polokwane were arrested for scamming 23 job seekers of more than R230 000. Just last month, a 42-year-old senior administrative officer employed in the department of roads and transport was arrested at his workplace in central Johannesburg in a joint operation by police and the Anti-Corruption Unit of the Road Traffic Management Corporation. The employee is alleged to have contravened several provisions of the National Road Traffic Act between July and December 2017. The suspects appeared in the Protea Glen Magistrate’s yesterday and police are hot on the heels of a third suspect. The two accused took advantage of the 1 500 JMPD officers’ recruitment process and recruited an additional 23 bogus recruits who paid R10200 each. Also R200 was for a fake medical certificate which was issued by the suspects. New recruits undergo training for 18 months. The official training started in October. Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba said: “I was informed that last week when the existing recruits reported for duty, they were joined by the 23 young people who fell victim to the scam and arrived an hour late. Upon their arrival, they produced fake appointment certificates which stated their salaries and which team they will be working with.” The city’s Group Forensic and Investigation Services Department (GFIS) and a team from the SAPS was then called in to assist in questioning and taking down statements from the 23 scam victims. They all confirmed that they never received any form of training and paid the suspects. Most of them come from Limpopo and slept at one of the suspect’s home in Protea Glen. The scam’s victims pointed out the suspects who were arrested at the weekend. “I am disappointed that a marked JMPD vehicle was used to transport the bogus recruits to the academy. “This is a clear indication that some one from the JMPD is involved in this scam. Just imagine the dangers our citizens and fellow officers who were recruited during an intense process would have faced being in the same space with these individuals who never received any form of training in policing. “We need to investigate if this kind of scam has been going on for years,” Mashaba said. He also encouraged people to report any corruption activities through the city’s 24-hour tip-off hotline. ntombin@thenewage.co.za -NTOMBI NKOSI