THERE is tension and confusion among parents and children who attend Durban Deep Primary School in Roodepoort as this week marks the third week of the school’s complete shut down due to the lack of water and electricity. School governing body member Constance Mosinyi said the longer the school is closed the more the frustration grows as the academic year progresses. Mosinyi, whose son attends the school, said the situation in the community was becoming intense. “It has been three weeks since we decided the school should be closed. The water tanks the department supplied had worms, so the community burned them. “We requested water, so they have been connecting the pipes and we are now waiting for the water meter, water pipes, water tanks and toilets,” Mosinyi said. She said they reported everything that happens at the school to the MEC for education, Panyaza Lesufi, and the director of education who have consistently promised to come to resolve the situation. However they have never shown their faces, she said. A Durban Deep Primary School parent Lydia Ngovene said: “The children need water, electricity and toilets but the lack of these is preventing them from going to school. The children cannot use the toilets as worms come out of them, they cannot be fed as the water has worms too.’’ Ngovene who has two children at the school in Grade R and Grade 5 said parents should rather make a plan as to where their children should attend school, as there weren’t any developments by the government. The school accommodates more than 2000 pupils from Matholeville, Princess, Mhlangeni, Creswell Park and Durban Deep. The province’s depart ment of education spokesperson, Steve Mabona, said the department is aware of the situation and is working hard to improve the infrastructure at the school. “We are planning to build a new school in the area. However, it is important to note that we are still in a planning stage to commence with the process,” he said. The DA Gauteng shadow MEC for education, Khume Ramulifho, said that for some time now, there had been a shortage of water leading to dry taps and toilets at the school not functioning. The department’s supply of water to the school in tanks left pupils sick after drinking it. Parents found worms in it. “These pupils are mostly from the forgotten informal settlements and parents from this area are unable to send their children to other schools as they can’t afford to pay for transport and school fees. We believe that a pupil’s background must never be a determinant of their success. These forgotten informal settlements are in desperate need of a total change that will provide opportunities for all,” Ramulifho said. keitumetsim@thenewage.co.za -KEITUMETSI MOTLHALE