ORLANDO Pirates may have improved from where they were last season, but coach Milutin Sredojevic insists they are still far from a side that can challenge for the Absa Premiership title this campaign. The Buccaneers moved up to second on the log standings after their 2-1 victory over Maritzburg United on Saturday following goals from Thabiso Kutumela and Happy Jele. While they are just five points behind log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns in the title race, Sredojevic feels they are still far from being a complete team but they are building a team which will dominate in future. “When you coach Pirates you must always need to have a highest possible ambition. We have started this season in one way that someone can regard as abnormal. Why? “We had a disaster of a season last year and instead of just going and collecting results keeping tight, we have gone for the game model with performances that will suit our tradition and style of life at the club. Also to get results and going into the process of developing the team,” Sredojevic said. “We asked ourselves can it be better? Of course it can be better. Sometimes in football you go step forward and backwards. It is important that you progress.” Sredojevic is targeting next season when he can mount a strong challenge for the league title as he feels by then they will be a complete team. “We have improved but still we are not satisfied, we are hungry, we want more. We are doing everything possible as a technical team to return where we are supposed to be. “We believe that if things went the way we wanted, those nine draws that we have, at least seven of them were supposed to be wins and we would be talking a different story, we would be runaway leaders,” Sredojevic said. With nine games remaining for his side, Sredojevic said it is important they continue to collect points and has targeted the next set of five to collect at least 10. “We are not bothered where we are in the table. It is nice to see that we are there but we are not looking at that. We are looking at block of matches, these previous block from 15 to 20 matches picked the 10 points and this is what we are looking at and we are succeeding to achieve what we wanted. “The block of next five matches, we are looking to pick as many as possible. We have Chippa United, Kaizer Chiefs, Golden Arrows and Bloemfontein Celtic. “If you look at that, we are more focused on the process where we are. The final day of the season will answer how good we have been throughout the season,” he said. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za