FEARS are mounting within the Hammanskraal community as the dispute between taxi drivers and taxi owners over a R112m deal with the city of Tshwane intensifies. Since Wednesday, taxi operations between the township and Tshwane CBD have been at a halt, leaving thousands of commuters stranded. The dispute emanates from an interlink agreement between the city and the Hammanskraal Taxi Organisation where taxis would cut their route short to accommodate A Re Yeng bus operations. It was agreed that taxis would ferry passengers from the township to Rainbow Junction which is a 34km distance. From Rainbow Junction the buses ferry passengers for the remaining 13km to the city centre. The new system officially was implemented on January 8 and this week it fell apart. Besides commuters complaining about the inconvenience, drivers say the city has not met its end of the bargain which was to financially compensate them for cutting their route short which automatically meant they had to drop the fare price. The amount agreed upon, which was to be paid by the city to the taxi association, was R300000 per taxi for the 375 taxis that entered into the agreement. Drivers want to be paid R50000 each from that money which they say they have never seen. Yesterday, Tshwane municipality confirmed that it paid R112m to Tshwane Rapid Transit (TRT) which is described as a Trust company that was created to hold the shares of the taxi and bus operators along the Bus Rapid Transit (“BRT”) corridor in Tshwane known as Affected Operators. TRT had not replied to questions saying they will release a formal media statement tomorrow. A close source to the situation said the drivers were paid an amount of R5000 each in December. “When the drivers found out that the owners were actually paid a certain amount of money, they then requested at least R50000 per head, but there was no agreement reached so they decided to put tools down until they were paid,” the source said. One of the taxi drivers who asked not to be named said they were not properly consulted about the changes. “An average driver used to make at least R5000 a week which would guarantee them a salary of R1000 per week, now we don’t even make half of that, some end up earning R170 a week because the owner has to take his share,” he said. The matters have been made worse by commuters who, to avoid being inconvenienced by the interlink system, are opting to use lift clubs. Tshwane MMC for roads and transport Sheila Senkubuge confirmed that they paid an amount of R112m to TRT in September last year. “While some of the issues could be addressed within a reasonable space of time, there are matters bound in legal agreements entered into by the city and the taxi industry which cannot just be changed overnight,” Senkubuge said. Senkubuge said during the agreement, taxi owners promised to pay their drivers a certain amount of money, but the city was not involved in deciding the specific amount. “We only found out on Wednesday that the drivers were not paid,” she said. Even though commuters and taxi drivers say they want away with the interlink agreement, the MMC said the agreement between the city and taxi associations is a permanent one. South African Transport and Allied Workers Union (Satawu) said yesterday that it was concerned about the safety of drivers and the commuters. Santaco’s Simon Mokoa said: “We are in talks with the city and can only comment when there is a solution on the plate.” charloteh@thenewage.co.za 