SOUTH African citizens and investors are still slightly optimistic after Cyril Ramaphosa was named as president of the ANC, however today’s budget speech is still going to be an incredibly tense affair. There’s still a lot of work to be done and the budget will give us a sense of our ambition and priorities as a country. Tough decisions will have to be made to help address South Africa’s alarming debt levels and budget deficit. Key to the budget speech will be the Treasury’s economic projections. These are used as key inputs into the budget process and although not always an exact science, these projections give us an idea of where the Treasury thinks the economy and inflation are going. At a high level, it’s also critical to see what is being done about fiscal consolidation – where is the budget deficit going and what is the trajectory for our sovereign debt? The concern about funding is genuine, given the fact that the government has announced there is a R51bn shortfall in the budget for this financial year. Adding to this is an indication that any additional budget programme would have to be funded in a way that does not breach the existing expenditure ceiling. The government has a difficult task of managing a widening rift between itself and taxpayers. Put simply, not enough people pay tax in our country, largely limiting what the government has in terms of income. This income is required to effectively manage the country and infrastructure. It is estimated that 13% of the South African population of the more than 56 million people pay income taxes. Too much of a burden is placed too few citizens and we’re fast approaching a situation where the government cannot keep looking to this small group to make up the deficit. Although it seems inevitable that some form of tax increases will occur, the problem is that further tax hikes would not necessarily lead to higher tax revenues. The Laffer Curve – an economic theory depicting the relationship between tax rates and tax revenue – suggests that once taxes are raised beyond a certain level, revenue starts falling. It is unclear whether South Africa has reached such a point, but calls for a tax revolt suggest taxpayers are fed up with a rising tax burden, while corruption and waste continue. To increase the existing tax revenue base and stay clear of the wave of fury an increase in personal income tax would cause, I foresee the government turning its effort towards a VAT increase. How effective and sustainable this attempt will be, is open to debate. The unfortunate consequence of a VAT increase is that the people who will be negatively affected the most are the poor. Essentially our government finds itself between a rock and a hard place. A decision must be made. Who do they want to fight with more? The tax base? Or the poor? VAT increase Many are predicting an increase in the VAT rate (the VAT rate has remained unchanged since its increase to 14% in 1993) as an attempt to balance the books. The Treasury must increase revenue and reduce expenditure. Increasing revenue means increasing taxes and we will all be keenly watching for confirmation of our fears/predictions. The VAT rate accounts for 25% of budget revenue and increasing the VAT rate would make a significant contribution to the fiscus. It is politically unpalatable, however, as it is a regressive tax and has the greatest relative impact on the poor. A variable VAT rate might solve the problem – high rates for luxury goods, lower rates for necessities such as food – but the Davis Tax Commission has already considered the idea and it didn’t find their favour. Nevertheless, despite the protestations, VAT is the one tax lever that can be pulled to make a meaningful difference to tax collection. PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) predicts the finance minister will announce tax hikes of at least R30bn in the budget speech today. This figure could be pushed up further due to funding required for free higher education, which was announced in December. PwC partner and head of national tax technical Kyle Mandy told journalists at a pre-budget media round table at Melrose Arch on Wednesday that an increase to 15% in the VAT rate could raise R22bn for the fiscus. However, Mandy cautioned that this will be offset by the need to spend R5bn more to compensate social grant recipients for the VAT hike. Lower income earners will also need to be given relief in terms of personal income tax to make this option more palatable. Further consideration is needed due to the looming national elections creeping ever closer. There is political pressure to keep VAT the same. There are no mechanisms in place to compensate the “missing middle”, unemployed and working poor, but the government has no choice. Should some of a VAT adjustment be made by the Treasury, households will feel it in their pockets. A higher VAT rate, VAT on fuel or VAT on municipal rates would all impact on disposable incomes. Together with an incomplete adjustment of tax brackets for fiscal drag, households will feel the pinch and it once again highlights the importance of the household budget. Following any of these tax changes, a complete revision of the household budget will be a necessity. Conclusion The story delivered by the finance minister needs to be achievable and believable. It must talk to a definite return to fiscal consolidation. It is going to be a tough task to get the budget deficit below 3% over the next three years, but the Treasury must show a firm commitment to reducing the deficit over the three-year budget framework. I still think that the correct approach would be to look at the expenditure side of the budget rather than trying to increase taxes for an already stressed economy. I really don’t think that taxes should be raised when so much could be done to cut expenditure. Limiting wasteful and fruitless expenditure and losses to the fiscus due to poor management of state-owned enterprises should be the first resort. Moody’s seems to concur. It warned that unless the government presented a “credible” fiscal consolidation plan in February, debt sustainability was at risk. Will politics trump economics once again? Only time will tell. What is clear is that anything short of a sincere fiscal consolidation plan will see Moody’s downgrade our country’s rating to sub-investment grade in a short space of time. This will add unwanted pressure and make the task of turning SA Inc around a grim prospect indeed. Mduduzi Luthuli is an investment manager at Luthuli Capital