PRESIDENT Cyril Ramaphosa has vowed to root out corruption at stateowned entities (SOEs), saying the action taken at Eskom to strengthen governance, root out corruption and restore its financial position is just the beginning. SA has lost billions of rands through corruption and a number of people both in the private and public sectors are facing years in jail if found guilty. Presenting a hard-hitting state of the nation address (Sona), Ramaphosa has made it clear that the new regime means business. He has promised to change the way SOE boards are appointed and will accept only people with expertise, experience and integrity to serve in these vital positions. “We will remove board members from any role in procurement and work with the auditor-general to strengthen external audit processes. “As we address challenges in specific companies, work will continue on the broad architecture of the state-owned enterprises sector to achieve better coordination, oversight and sustainability,” Ramaphosa said. He said that many SOEs were experiencing severe financial, operation and governance challenges, which had impacted on the performance of the economy and placed pressure on the fiscus. “We will intervene decisively to stabilise and revitalise state-owned enterprises. It is high time to shake up our SOEs,” Ramaphosa said. He said the government will take further measures to ensure that all stateowned companies fulfil their economic and developmental mandates, ensuring they have sufficient revenue to fund their operational costs. “These SOEs cannot borrow their way out of their financial difficulties and we will therefore undertake a process of consultation with all stakeholders to review the funding model of SOEs and other measures,” he said. He said this was the year in which the government would turn the tide on corruption in the public institutions. “The commission of inquiry into state capture headed by the deputy chief justice judge Raymond Zondo is expected to commence shortly. “The commission is critical to ensuring that the extent and nature of state capture is established, that confidence in public institutions is restored and that those responsible for any wrongdoing are identified,” he said. The president said South Africans must remember that every time someone received a bribe there was someone who was prepared to pay it. Ramaphosa was (getting) down to business, he said and would shortly appoint a commission of inquiry into tax administration and governance of SARS, to ensure that they restored the credibility of the service and strengthened its capacity to meet its revenue targets. Some observers said the commission of inquiry into tax administration would signal the end for SARS boss Tom Moyane. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za