A CRUCIAL meeting this week of National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) prosecutors will finalise recommendations on whether or not to prosecute former president Jacob Zuma for a slew of graft charges relating to the arms deal scandal. National director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) Shaun Abrahams has given his five-person prosecuting team, led by KwaZulu-Natal director of public prosecutions Moipone Noko, a deadline to furnish him with recommendations by Friday. NPA national spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaku said yesterday that the team of prosecutors would be meeting this week on the matter to finalise their recommendations. He also said that the NPA had already lined up witnesses who were prepared to testify, should the law enforcement agency move ahead with the case and prosecute Zuma for charges relating to fraud, money laundering and racketeering. “The NDPP has given the prosecutors until (February 23),” Mfaku said. Mfaku said of the state of preparedness by witnesses lined up to testify: “We have been advised by the head of the Hawks that their investigators have managed to get hold of the witnesses and they are willing to testify should the NDPP decide to prosecute.” Zuma’s legal team submitted reasons to Abrahams on why the former president should not be charged for the 2009 spy tapes saga. This after his November 30, 2017 deadline was extended to January 31, 2018. Then NPA boss Mokotedi Mpshe dropped charges against Zuma, citing political interference. The Supreme Court of Appeal dismissed in October last year, Zuma’s and the NPAappeal of a 2016 high court in Pretoria decision that the 2009 ruling to drop charges against him was irrational. In reading out the ruling, justice eric Leach said the order by the high court could not be “faulted”. “The reasons for discontinuing the prosecution provided by Mpshe do not bear scrutiny for the recordings themselves on which Mpshe relied, even if taken at face value, do not impinge on the propriety of the investigation of the case against Zuma or the merits of the prosecution itself,” Leach said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO