THE government’s efforts to bring blacks into the mainstream economy are being stymied by people circumventing the Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment (B-BBEE) Act through devious practices such as fronting. The B-BBEE Commission says it has received more than 50 fronting complaints since October. Last year, 17 companies including MTN group and Eskom were implicated in an investigation into possible fronting practices and noncompliance with the B-BBEE Act. “What has been discovered from the complaints the B-BBEE Commission is investigating, is that fronting practices are prevalent in all the elements of the codes of good practice. This amounts to misrepresentation or attempts to misrepresent the B-BBEE status of the measured entity,” the B-BBEE Commission said. It recently concluded a case against SAB&T BEE Services and Shameema Ismail which underlined how even BEEverification companies have become part of the problem. Ismail and her company were found guilty of improper conduct for issuing B-BBEE certificates for two periods (2014-15 and 2015-16) but using the same set of financial statements. This amounts to misrepresentation of the B-BBEE status of the entity. “An entity can be fined 10% of its annual turnover and natural persons can be imprisoned for a maximum period of 10 years. Further, the entity can be listed in the tender defaulter register managed by the Department of Finance, to be excluded from doing business with government,” the Department of Trade and Industry’s Bongani Lukhele said. In Ismail’s case she and her company had to issue a public apology, commission an independent audit of all certificates issued for 2014 to 2016 and refund all entities in which the same improper practice was used. If she fails to do this she can be criminally prosecuted and referred to the National Accreditation Systems and the Independent Regulatory Board for Auditors for de-registration. BEE lecturer at the Unisa Graduate School of Business Leadership and procurement specialist Ozias Ncube says the laws need to be tightened against companies that have lax risk management capabilities in place. He said this was crucial given the seriousness of the transformational agenda in the country. “I believe there should be more effort put into identifying these vulnerabilities and putting resilience strategies in place. Transgressing entities or persons need to be blacklisted from further accessing state funded opportunities, while the law takes its course.” Bravura Capital’s Rob Peche said the role of a verification agent was to act as an auditor for BEE legislation. “Part of the problem is that fronting is a broad concept and although guidance is provided by the legislature and the BEE Commission, there are grey areas,” Peche said “We are beginning to see some form of public shaming through the cases that are being prosecuted by the BEE Commission. This needs to be applied consistently, without fear or favour, as it may detract from the original objective of addressing fronting, and be seeing as a platform for scoring points, politically or otherwise,” Peche said. Director for Centre for Economic Development and Transformation Duma Gqubule said although loopholes in the B-BBEE act had been addressed there were some areas that needed tightening. -SISANDA MADWANTSI|news@thenewage.co.za