SHOPRITE, Africa’s biggest grocer, has lifted earnings despite a struggling domestic economy – with double-digit profit growth for the 26 weeks ended December, the company said in a results presentation yesterday. The retail giant produced an industryleading performance, with total turnover up 6.3% from R71.3bn to R75.8bn on the back of 3.9% growth in volume of products sold and 3.6% growth in number of customers. Trading profit was 5% higher at R4.10bn. This, the company said, was a “satisfactory’ performance given that Shoprite RSA internal inflation dropped seven percentage points to just 0.4% compared to the previous year”. Group results were boosted by a strong performance in core South African supermarket operations, which grew turnover by 7.8%. Turnover of Supermarkets Non-RSA operations, however, declined 0.4%, measured against an exceptional prior year increase of 32.3%. At constant currencies,supermarkets Non-RSA turnover grew 1.9%. Chief executive Pieter Engelbrecht said that the performance by the South African operations, boosted by the continued success of Checkers’ sharpened focus on high-income customers, helped offset the effect of a challenging year for non-RSA operations. Checkers, where sales grew at a faster rate than its two other brands, Usave and Shoprite, “gained market share on the back of significant improvements in service, enhancements to its fresh products and convenience food offerings and upgraded store design,” the company said. “There are tentative signs of renewed confidence in South Africa and some green shoots in several economies in which the group operates which point to positive change in the medium term. “Consumers remain under pressure but have felt some respite with fuel price decreases, while the strong rand will have a positive effect on import prices. These factors point to the potential for improvements in sales and profitability,” the company said. The group had entrenched its position as the continent’s leading retailer and “remains well positioned to capitalise on any change in conditions with its continued investment into its enviable store footprint, superior brands and its focus on its strategic growth drivers”. “The group expects to retain its market-leading growth and remains cautiously optimistic for a further improvement in performance in 2018,” Shoprite said. Shoprite will expand into Kenya, Engelbrecht said, as looks to take advantage of the growing east African economy. “We have not changed our focus to say we’re not looking at the continent anymore. We have grabbed that opportunity, we’re going to Kenya,” Engelbrecht said. To sustain long-term growth both in South Africa and beyond its borders, the group opened a net 158 new stores during the past 12 months and at the end of December was trading from 2 811 outlets, adding 4 254 additional jobs in the reporting period, to bring the total staff complement to more than 148 000. The board declared an interim dividend of 205c per ordinary share, to be paid out of income reserves. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za