WILD speculation that President Jacob Zuma planned to drop the axe on his deputy Cyril Ramaphosa amid a week of high drama has prompted the ANC to scotch this rumour and several others. The confusion surrounding Zuma’s and Ramaphosa’s agreement to postpone a crucial ANC national executive committee (NEC) meeting to February 17 and 18, to decide on the former’s fate and the shelving of today’s state of the nation address (Sona) prompted several rumours that the ruling party has moved swiftly to quash. ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule has rubbished the idea that Ramaphosa’s head was on the chopping block as Zuma and Ramaphosa continue to iron out details of an agreement that could see Zuma vacate office sometime next week. “There isn’t any President Zuma who is intending to remove ANC president Ramaphosa, there can’t be any credible source, I’m talking with authority,” Magashule said. This comes after the SACP urged Zuma to either confirm or deny allegations that he was planning to have Ramaphosa fired in a bid to have Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, who lost out in her bid to become ANC president at the party;s December elective conference, take over as acting president. “The SACP further challenges President Zuma to, as a matter of urgency, to deny or confirm and considering his desperation probably credible information that he is preparing to fire Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa any time from now and replace him with Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, who he wants to position to take over as acting president should he find himself removed from office,” SACP national spokesperson Alex Mashilo said. Regarding the meeting that Zuma and Ramaphosa had at Tuynhuys on Tuesday night, Magashule said the two leaders would continue to hold engagements amid news reports that Zuma would resign as soon as he received guarantees on the terms and conditions of his exit. “In their meeting, the two had a very constructive meeting. Therefore let’s wait until they have finalised their discussions and engagements. “Because of the constructive discussions between the two presidents, we therefore postponed the NEC meeting. “We are still supposed to meet next weekend and therefore we’ll continue with our meeting next weekend,” Magashule said. The Presidency was also at pains to dismiss, as fake, a statement purportedly from Zuma’s office announcing Russian President Vladimir Putin’s visit to the country. In a terse statement, Zuma’s spokesperson Bongani Ngqulunga said the statement was a fabrication. “A fake media statement is circulating on social media purporting to be from The Presidency, claiming a state visit to South Africa by President Vladimir Putin of the Russian Federation from 8 to 11 February 2018. “There is no state visit by President Putin to SA this week. The Presidency has issued no such statement. Communications Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane has called for the media to treat with caution any breaking news without providing checks and balances. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO