Mamelodi Sundowns stars Percy Tau and Khama Billiat combined for a superb goal that defeated Cape Town City 1-0 and gave the South African Premiership leaders a five-point advantage Saturday. While the record seven-time league champions were winning a fiery top-of-the-table clash, only Orlando Pirates and Free State Stars among the chasing pack achieved victories. Pirates recovered from a midweek mauling at lowly Ajax Cape Town to edge combative Maritzburg United 2-1 in rain-soaked Soweto and rise to second. Unexpected challengers Free State, a side traditionally associated with relegation battles, overcame one-time pacesetters Baroka 2-0 and lie third. A glut of draws are hampering the title challenge of Kaizer Chiefs with a 1-1 deadlock at defending champions Wits placing them fourth, seven points off the pace. Sundowns, the 2016 CAF Champions League winners, have 38 points entering the last third of a 30-match schedule, Pirates 33, Free State 32 and Chiefs and Cape Town 31. The Pretoria outfit are popularly known as the “Brazilians” because they wear the same colours as the five-time world champions and try to emulate their style of play. Samba football won the match in Cape Town with Tau dribbling from halfway into the box before crossing for Zimbabwean Billiat to slam the ball into the roof of the net. The 48th-minute goal settled a match in which Cape Town applied far more pressure, forcing 11 corners to one, only to be let down once again by weak finishing. Ironically, City are coached by former star South Africa striker Benni McCarthy, whose 31 goals is a national team record. McCarthy was part of the Jose Mourinho-managed Porto team that won the UEFA Champions League and his seven goals helped South Africa finish 1998 Africa Cup of Nations runners-up. He saw his side lose from the stand having being sent off recently, and being fined 50,000 rand ($4,150/3,325 euros) for calling a referee a “cow” in a separate incident. Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane joined McCarthy in the VIP section midway through the opening half after being mysteriously red-carded. Media and public assumptions that the former South Africa striker and coach swore at the referee were rejected by Sundowns’ assistant coaches. Thabiso Kutumela beat slow-reacting Ghana goalkeeper Richard Ofori from a free-kick just outside the box on the half hour to set Pirates on the road to success. Goodman Dlamini broke the deadlock after 32 minutes to put Free State in control against Baroka in central town Bethlehem. -AFP