UNDER the weight of strengthening indications that a Cabinet reshuffle was on the cards, President Cyril Ramaphosa’s spokesperson Tyrone Seale was yesterday noncommittal on whether or not the president was applying his mind on the matter. This after former SA Reserve Bank governor Tito Mboweni yesterday refused to avail himself for a ministerial post in the event that Ramaphosa pulls the trigger on a Cabinet shake-up. Seale said that while the Constitution empowered Ramaphosa with the prerogative to make changes in the national executive, if and when he decided to pull the trigger should be left to him. “In terms of the Constitution, the president appoints members of the Cabinet, so it’s a matter that should be left in the hands of the president,” Seale said. His comments come in the wake of a list having circulated on social media indicating that Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane, Public Services Minister Faith Mutambi, Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba, Energy Minister David Mahlobo and Water Affairs Minister Nomvula Mokonyane’s heads were all on the chopping block. Zweli Mhkize, Senzo Mchunu, Jackson Mthembu and Zizi Kodwa were expected to be sworn in as ministers. Further fuelling speculation of a reshuffle, Mboweni said yesterday that he would not accept a Cabinet call up if asked to make a comeback. “Against the wisdom of my team, please don’t tell them this. It’s between us, I am not available for minister of finance. You cannot recycle the same people all over again. It is time for young people. We are available for advisory roles. Not Cabinet. We have done that,” Mboweni said. Ramaphosa’s backers in the ANC national executive committee (NEC) were yesterday adamant that Ramaphosa needed to make changes in th finance, energy, social development and trade and industry departments. “These portfolios are the most scandal ridden. It would send a good message if changes are made there,” sources said. In his state of the nation address last week, Ramaphosa gave a tacit indication that Social Development Minister Bathabile Dlamini was on the firing line. Ramaphosa expressed his concerns about how Dlamini’s department handled the social grants crisis. “We will urgently take decisive steps to comply with all directives of the Constitutional Court,” Ramaphosa said. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO