DESIREE Vardhan, the woman who accused former Sascoc CEO Tubby Reddy of sexual harassment emerged as one of the key witnesses on the first day of a ministerial commission of inquiry into wideranging maladministration at the South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee. The inquiry comes in response to numerous allegations of poor governance, financial mismanagement, nonadherence to the Sascoc constitution and the failure of the Sascoc board to respond adequately to the Minister of Sport on all allegations levelled against the organisation which governs sport in the country. Headed by retired judge Ralph Zulman, the inquiry is set to continue until next month and will also include malpractices that emerged in findings against Reddy, who has subsequently been dismissed. Vardhan said she had found the working conditions at Sascoc during Reddy’s tenure difficult. However, she gave evidence about her sexual harassment case behind closed doors as the judges asked the media to leave the room. “It was a toxic, sick and very threatening environment. They never took their coaching programme that needed to be implemented seriously and there were inconsistencies in the budget,” she said. The inquiry will also provide Reddy with an opportunity to air his grievances related to his dismissal as will other Sascoc officials, who have been invited to tell their side of the story in the coming weeks. Reddy was relieved of his duties last month after a disciplinary hearing chaired by advocate Anton Myburgh found him guilty of harassment. In addition to Vardhan’s testimony, former Athletics South Africa board member Laraine Lane raised some disturbing issues around the handling of the Caster Semenya gender case by Dr Harold Adams when the matter first exploded into the public domain in 2009. Lane said the Team SA doctor, Adams, had been aware that the International Association of Athletics Federation (IAAF) wanted to have Semenya undergo a gender test after she had run a time of 1:56.72 at the African Junior Championships in Mauritius in 2009. “Dr Adams had not obtained Caster’s written, informed consent to the gender testing process,” Lane said. “Dr Adams travelled with Caster to Berlin but he failed to discuss the test or share with her details of their possible ramifications. That was confirmed by the team management on their return from Berlin.” A number of witnesses were also called to testify and submit evidence of Sascoc mismanagement. Former SA Show Jumping president Clem Dos Santos testified that Sascoc ignored his pleas in the equestrian space not to put all disciplines of equestrian under one umbrella because each discipline had different needs. The inquiry was adjourned to Thursday from 10am. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za