IF BENNI McCarthy had thought that the transition from coaching to management was going to be easy, his recent rant despite his team qualifying for the CAF Confederation Cup first round, proves it is a tough assignment. Things are so bad that McCarthy has even threatened to come out of retirement and solve his team’s goal-scoring woes himself. The Cape Town City coach was infuriated by his side’s inability to seal their chances, scoring just one goal against Young Buffaloes of Swaziland. Winger Surprise Ralani scored, but the side’s strikers once again failed to hit the target. The result sees City, who are in their first season in the Confederation Cup, win the two legged tie 2-0 on aggregate. The horrible misses in front of goal have even led to McCarthy, who remains the country’s all-time leading goal scorer at national level with 31 goals, saying he is even considering “liposuction” so that he can play again – at 40 years old – and show his youngsters how it’s done. “I gave them a nice bollocking after the game because when you get an opportunity like this, these are the type of games to prove yourself, to take your chances and score goals. “But it was another smash-and-grab game for us, because it’s forever 1-0, 1-0, 1-0. It gets frustrating when you’re standing on the sidelines and I see my team creating numerous chances against every opposition we play, but we still don’t score goals,” McCarthy said. “I don’t know if I must maybe go for liposuction to get myself to play again, maybe that would do the trick, because maybe some of the players will be a bit embarrassed by a 40 year old taking their place and doing unbelievably well because I could do better than what a few of them are doing. “Not that I’m talking my players down but this is just happening far too often. “I don’t know what to say or do any more,” the former Bafana Bafana striker said. City next play Mozambique’s Costa do Sol who made it to the first round after beating Botswana’s Jwaneng Galaxy. Meanwhile, SuperSport United will play against Mozambique giants Petro de Luanda in the first round of the Confed Cup. Eric Tinkler’s side will be out to go one step better than they did last season, when they lost the final to Democratic Republic of Congo side TP Mazembe. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za