Veteran ANC leader and Minister of Science and Technology Naledi Pandor on Monday called on opposition parties to give President Cyril Ramaphosa time and space to decide on who is going to be in his Cabinet. Pandor was the last speaker during Monday’s marathon debate on the State of the Nation Address (Sona), which was delivered by Ramaphosa on Friday. Several opposition parties have been calling on Ramaphosa to fire all ministers who have been complicit in the state capture project and the pillaging of state-owned institutions. Pandor has been tipped by many to be Ramaphosa’s deputy. In a build-up to the ANC elective conference in December, Ramaphosa expressed his wish to have Pandor as his deputy. “I note honourable Meshoe’s debate to the debate as with other colleagues but they should leave you to choose your Cabinet if you wish to. They should really leave it to yourself to decide,” Pandor told the president. She also acknowledged as very good a speech by EFF Chief Whip Floyd Shivambu, who had given Ramaphosa suggestions on how to improve revenue through the creation of a sovereign wealth fund and retain it through the South African Revenue Service. Pandor slammed Freedom Front Plus member of Parliament Pieter Groenewald’s earlier speech that white youth were not getting opportunities as a result of Black Economic Empowerment policies being pursued by the government. “All verified data shows that this is not true and it can be disputed. Twenty-three years after our democracy, black youth and women continue to be excluded.” Pandor reserved some of the harsher words for Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota, who earlier asked how the government would determine whose land was going to be expropriated and what the words “our people”, as frequently uttered in Parliament, meant. Lekota left the National Assembly after his time lapsed during his speech and was jeered by members of the House. “I found Lekota’s contribution to this debate rather embarrassing. I could not understand how a leader in the struggle who had suffered in prison with structures and understands the disposition among our people in the country, a person who would have that rooted in his political education, should understand that we have nothing but an obligation to repair that history.” “When you ask ‘who is our people?’, of course, all our people are our people but when we talk about land, it is those who have been dispossessed that we want to have access to that land.” Ramaphosa is expected to respond to the debate at 2pm on Tuesday. -TNA Reporter