The Viceroy research group has condemned a decision by the South African Reserve Bank (Sarb) to support Capitec Bank. Last week, the Reserve Bank expressed its full support for Capitec following a blistering attack by Viceroy. “The Sarb notes a report by a US-based fund manager. As part of our mandate, we monitor the safety and soundness of all banks, including Capitec Bank. According to all the information available, Capitec is solvent, well capitalised and has adequate liquidity. The bank meets all prudential requirements,” the Sarb said in a statement. Viceroy said it expected the Reserve Bank to perform an adequate regulatory inspection of Capitec and expected it to do so in due course. It said the Sarb could only give a response limiting itself to information contained in the most recent Capitec annual report, which was readily available. “Viceroy’s allegation is that Capitec’s balance sheet, income and solvency numbers are not reliable and that the mechanism of under-representing losses is to pretend that uncollectible loans are collectible and still accruing income.” “Viceroy suggests that at least R10 billion worth of loans fall into this category. Moreover, these loans are largely in the long-dated loans on Capitec’s balance sheet, such as 49-to-60 month and 61-84-month month loans,” Viceroy said. It said Capitec’s long-dated unsecured lending business in South Africa according to Capitec has lower losses than Citigroup’s prime credit card business. “Capitec’s claims for the excellence of their long-dated lending business extend further than this. Capitec has an admirable formulaic provisioning policy.” Viceroy said the numbers provided by Capitec on the 61-84 month book of loans was perhaps the best performing set of unsecured personal loans in the world. “There is almost no delinquency and astonishingly low charge-offs.” The group said it had collected a considerable amount of evidence that Capitec staff regularly rolled these loans or restructured them so that no delinquency or losses were recorded. “Indeed, Viceroy believes that is by far the best explanation for the astonishing performance of the long-dated Capitec loans.” -TNA Reporter