Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba will on Wednesday give clarity on how the provision of free higher education, which was announced by former President Jacob Zuma, is going to be financed. Gigaba is expected to deliver his maiden budget speech since he took over the position from former Minister Pravin Gordhan. It is expected to be the toughest budget speech since the advent of democracy after Gigaba announced during his mid-term budget speech in October that Sars had a revenue collection shortfall of R50 billion for the 2016-17 financial year. President Cyril Ramaphosa announced the programme as one of government’s key plans for the year. One of the biggest challenges facing the country is that of joblessness and unemployment among the youth. Unemployment among the youth has been regarded as a ticking time bomb by some like the South African Federation of Trade Unions’ Zwelinzima Vavi. During his State of the Nation Address last week, Ramaphosa said government would have to undertake several initiatives that would create jobs. “At the centre of our national agenda in 2018 is the creation of jobs, especially for the youth.” “We are going to embark on a number of measures to address the unemployment challenge.” “One of the initiatives will be to convene a jobs summit within the next few months to align the efforts of every sector and every stakeholder behind the imperative of job creation,” Ramaphosa said. Eskom The current situation that the country’s sole electricity supplier finds itself in has been described as a tragedy. Several rating agencies have downgraded it to junk status, meaning its ability to ask for loans in order to keep the lights on has diminished significantly. Recently, the company received a R5 billion bailout from the PIC in order for it to run its operations for February. The world will be waiting with bated breath to see what interventions the finance minister will make in order to return the parastatal to profitability and optimal running. State Owned Enterprises Several state-owned enterprises (SOEs) are in a state of paralysis. Several of them have been downgraded. Eskom, Transnet, SAA, DENEL and Prasa to name a few, have been moving from one crisis to the next. The organisations have been besieged by one allegation of corruption, cronyism and incompetence after another. The organisations have been at the centre of the state capture allegations that have been investigated by former public protector Thuli Madonsela. Crime and Corruption Crime and corruption, both in public and private institutions have been described as the enemy of progress and the growth of the economy. The country is eagerly awaiting what percentage of the budget is going to be allocated top crime-fighting operations. This includes the boosting of SAPS, the Hawks and the NPA who are all crucial to the fight against crime and corruption fighting. Several people have been calling for Ramaphosa to remove Gigaba from his position as he is seen as someone who facilitated the capture of the state and his closeness to the controversial Gupta family. Former Finance Minister Pravin Gordan has been touted by many as the potential replacement for Gigaba given his experience on finance matters and his popularity. Gordhan has also been predicted to take over the Department of Public Enterprises from Lynn Brown, who was labelled the enabler of the capture of Eskom during the parliamentary inquiry. -TNA Reporter