PATRICIA de Lille’s battle to hold on to her Cape Town mayoral job takes centre stage in the Cape Town High Court today. This is one of two major encounters she will have with DA this week. On Thursday the former PAC member, who left to form her own party, the Independent Democrats, before taking it into a partnership with the DA, will face a motion of no confidence as mayor of the Cape Town metro. This motion has been tabled by her own party. She can expect little mercy from the DA. Party leader Mmusi Maimane was emphatic in Cape Town yesterday that it was time for new leadership. However, it has been reliably learned that the DA leadership, worried about the reputational damage that it is suffering behind the scenes, has been making overtures to her to make peace. When this failed at the weekend, a hard-line statement was issued yesterday. “While the situation is unprecedented and painful to all in the DA, the time has come for a fresh leadership team in the city to take that caucus forward and restore the faith of the public in what has been the crown jewel of DA governments until recently,” Maimane said. The new city leadership will have to unite the caucus and focus on delivering excellent services and answering the many concerns of the public so that it can deliver “an even better result” in the metro and province in 2019. “The public has our commitment that we will do what is right and what is in the best interests of the voters, no matter how tough it is,” Maimane said. Last week De Lille hired advocate Dali Mpofu to take her case to court as she has applied for a secret ballot in the no confidence debate. “The matter of the urgent application which I launched in the Western Cape High Court in relation to the vote for the motion of no confidence in me will be heard (today) at 10am,” De Lille said. The issue could not be decided by a majority vote, she said. “Many councillors, ordinary party members and members of the public are supporting me and wish that the councillors that represent them be given an opportunity to vote against the motion without fear of being sidelined in the party,” De Lille said. “Party leadership, both at federal and provincial level, desperately want to get rid of me. Anyone with aspirations to move up in the ranks of the DA will fear the repercussions that will follow if they vote against the motion.” De Lille has also angered the DA by asking the court to declare as unconstitutional clause 3.5.1.12 of its federal constitution, which prohibits any member of any legislative body to vote in a motion of no confidence without the approval of the federal executive. “I have also asked the court to declare this clause unconstitutional and invalid, as it is inconsistent with the Constitution as well as the Municipal Structures Act,” her statement said. The DA responded by giving her until 3pm last Friday to withdraw her court application. But she has refused, thereby showing her intention to fight to the finish with the party that wants her out. At its weekend meeting, the DA federal executive ratified the decision taken by its Cape Town caucus to call for a no confidence vote in De Lille. news@thenewage.co.za -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN