MIXED reactions continued to swell throughout the wake of President Cyril Ramaphosa’s Cabinet reshuffle. With just over a week in office, Ramaphosa wasted no time in concretising his ascendancy to the Union Buildings by making several sweeping Cabinet changes that have elicited a flurry of comments from political parties, business groups and labour bodies. Changes made to Ramaphosa’s executive include the appointment of David Mabuza as deputy president and Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, who lost out in her bid for ANC presidency, as Minister in the Presidency. While the likes of Malusi Gigaba, Nomvula Mokonyane and Bathabile Dlamini were retained but shifted to new portfolios, Fikile Mbalula, Nathi Nhleko, David Mahlobo, Joe Maswanganyi, Faith Muthambi, Hlengiwe Mkhize, Bongani Bongo, Mosebenzi Zwane, Des van Rooyen and Lynne Brown among others, got the chop. ANC Women’s League secretarygeneral Meokgo Matuba said while the league respected Ramaphosa’s “prerogative” to make changes, it lamented the lack of gender parity. “It is important to highlight that the Cabinet reshuffle did not adequately achieve the 50-50 gender parity. “The ANC must be the epitome of gender equality in theory and in practice and that has to reflect in the ANC-led government from national to local level. ANC MK Military Veterans Association’s spokesperson Carl Niehaus said the ANC had needed to find a way to close ranks and the composition of the Cabinet was a reflection of it. “We as the ANC need to find the possibility and ability to unite, to work together and to make sure that whatever we do, we serve the people of South Africa and I sincerely hope the ministers appointed will put that task to mind, rather than anything else,” he said. Cope leader Mosiuoa Lekota said the make-up of the Cabinet too closely resembled that of his predecessor, Jacob Zuma, and was an indication that Ramaphosa was not “in charge”. “This version of the Cabinet clearly indicates former president Zuma remains in control of the direction the ANC is taking. Before the elections at the conference of the ANC, he suggested to them that whoever became president must take the opponent as a deputy. “Yesterday, we saw how he knowingly brought Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma into his office to be the one who determines the direction the Cabinet will take. “Clearly Ramaphosa is not the king of the stable. He is under the control of the Zuma faction, Lekota said UDM leader Bantu Holomisa described Ramaphosa’s cabinet as “underwhelming”. bonolos@thenewage.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO