MORE than 350 delegates will today gather for the inaugural Community Safety Awards hosted by the Gauteng department of community safety at Rabasotho Hall in Tembisa. The ceremony, which is part of the Provincial Safety Month programme, seeks to recognise and acknowledge the outstanding contribution made by members of Gauteng’s law enforcement agencies (LEAs) and social partners in improving the safety and security of Gauteng citizens. The awards consist of 14 categories with the highlight of the night being four MEC’s choice awards categories. The categories are as follows: Gauteng police station of the year, most improved priority police station (from the 40 priority stations), metro police departments’ awards (based on triple mandate) MPD, community awards, most effective community policing forum, most effective victim empowerment centre, most effective community safety forum, most effective youth crime prevention desk, most effective specialised unit (based on crime prevention) and most improved regional office. The MEC’s award categories are the community bravery award, the MEC’s law enforcement agency bravery award, most effective Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences Unit and lastly the Integrity Award. A committee comprising of representatives from various LEAs and officials from the Gauteng department of community safety led by an independent expert has been established to oversee the adjudication process of the awards. The nominees in these categories are based on current evaluation processes conducted by the department focusing on the commitment and innovative approach to increasing safety in the province. Gauteng MEC for community safety Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane has expressed her satisfaction at the preparations for the awards. She said: “We’re ready to honour and recognise Gauteng’s excellence in ensuring the safety of Gauteng citizens through these awards. “This will be a night to remember in recognition of all the hard work by our officers, patrollers and the bravery demonstrated by the citizens of our province.” dikeledim@thenewage.co.za -DIKELEDI MOLOBELA