ALMOST a year after Thembisile Yende’s decomposing body was found in her office on the East Rand, her family says it’s being sidelined and kept in the dark about the investigation, despite her alleged killer’s trial being due to start in six weeks. The 29-year-old Eskom employee’s family had to approach the Human Rights Commission to be able to get information from the police and the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA). Yende’s brother, Mboneni, told The New Age yesterday the family was shocked to find that the only man arrested for the murder, David Ngwenya, who was also an Eskom employee, had been released on bail. “We resorted to going to the Human Rights Commission and also invited the NPA to the meeting because we felt that they needed to explain to us what procedure was followed with the appeal of Ngwenya’s bail and why the family was not informed when there was a bail appeal lodged in the high court,” Mboneni said. The NPA acknowledged that it had not told the family and it would try to rectify it and let the family know whenever there is communication from the high court instead of keeping quiet. Yende further said that they found it strange that the police said they had no further leads as to who committed the crime. “We don’t think a stranger committed the murder but someone who works at Eskom,” he said. In May last year, within days of her picture being circulated on social media as a missing person, Yende’s decomposing body was found in her office at a Telkom substation in the East Rand. Her car was still parked in her parking spot outside her office. She had been injected with a drug to weaken her, beaten, strangled and also hit on the head with a heavy object. While initially there had been claims that it was a suicide, it later emerged during Ngwenya’s first bail application through the testimony of investigating officer Lt-Col Christo Lotz that Ngwenya, 44, was identified by a sangoma he had allegedly visited before his arrest, along with two other people, to help them make the matter “disappear”. The state’s case is that Yende was a whistle blower who was about to expose a copper-theft syndicate run by Eskom employees. The Human Rights Commission confirmed it had held a mediation process with the Yende family, the police and the NPA yesterday but said it could not divulge the contents of the meeting as it would jeopardise the course of the investigation. -DIKELEDI MOLOBELA