THE Students Representative Council (SRC) at the Durban University of Technology (DUT) has expressed concerned over the delays in starting the academic programme. This after the council announced on Friday that the start of lectures will be postponed yet again, this time until further notice, as the staff industrial action enters its sixth week today. SRC president Sphephelo Mthembu said students have already missed almost two months of study time. “We are not happy with the ongoing strike because all academic programmes should have started by now. The fact that some students are still registering is a concern as well, the academic programme could not start with all this going on. The postponement is a worry but it is a better option,” Mthembu said. On Friday the DUT announced that all lectures will be suspended until further notice. DUT spokesperson Alan Khan said the decision was made by the executive committee of the Senate. “The university will announce a revised 2018 academic calendar as soon as possible. Although lectures have been suspended until further notice, DUT remains open,” he said. So far 21000 students have registered for the 2018 academic year despite the ongoing strike which began on January 15 involving more than 1000 staff members under Nehawu, NTEU and Tenusa. “DUT would like to apologise for any inconvenience caused during this challenging time. The University would like to thank all its stakeholders for their continued understanding, support and patience. DUT remains committed to resolving the current salary deadlock,” Khan said. After months of negotiations and interventions by the CCMA, DUT management and the unions cannot agree over the 2018 salary increase, housing allowance and a once-off bonus of R9000. Students who have not yet registered, can still register online, via the DUT website, www.dut.ac.za or alternatively, in person, at the Riverside campus in Pietermaritzburg or at any of the Durban registration venues. Students can also email to info@ dut.ac.za for assistance with registration or call 031 373 5005 during office hours. Staff and students have been advised to keep checking the DUT website for all official university announcements. sibongisenim@thenewage.co.za -SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO