THE 74-year-old woman whose naked body was found in her bedroom cupboard in Bircheigh, Kempton Park has been identified as Miemie Bergh, a former theatre matron and scrub sister at Arwyp Medical Centre. Police spokesperson Capt Lesibana Molokomme said police sector members patrolling in Birchleigh were called to Manhattan Heights on Friday afternoon. Upon arrival, Cora Myburgh, who said she was the decease’s friend, told the police that Bergh’s cellphone was on voice mail and her house was locked. The officers asked her to get a locksmith to come unlock the residence. “In the house they found everything in the main bedroom turned upside down,” Molokomme said. Upon checking the cupboard in the main bedroom they found the woman’s naked body. The body had injuries and bruises all over it. It is believed the deceased was murdered. The emotional friend said the locksmith opened the wardrobe and immediately slammed it shut again. According to the friend the woman was found with no clothes on, had been strangled and hit on the head with an axe. Police said the complex where Bergh lived, has an electrical gate. Owners use remote controls to open and close it, as the complex has no guard. Police think Bergh may have known her killer, as there was no forced entry to her home. Myburgh confirmed Molokomme’s suspicions, saying a casual worker had visited Bergh that day to fix her roof. “A neighbour saw the man at the gate. The worker said he was there to work for Miemie who confirmed and let him in.” Myburgh said the man had worked for Bergh before. “One of the worst parts was that he put the bedding in the wardrobe on top of Bergh’s body and tried to set it alight. But when he closed the wardrobe door, the fire died.” Myburgh said the suspect’s tools were found on the scene. Arwyp, where Bergh worked for 31 years, said she would be sadly missed by all. “She was strict, fair, hardworking and compassionate towards her colleagues, doctors and patients,” Chantal Rawbone, spokesperson for the hospital said. kutullom@thenewage.co.za -KUTULLO MADISHA