COUNTRYWIDE police operations resulted in the discovery of two major syndicates involved in cross-border smuggling. The first arrest was in Hermanus, Western Cape where a 31-year-old man was caught, allegedly transporting 5 138 units of abalone, estimated to cost about R500000. The man will appear in the Hermanus Magistrate’s Court today. Police said the man was caught redhanded offloading the abalone in the bushes. Meanwhile in Limpopo, police in Lephalale are investigating a case of culpable homicide after two people died in an accident involving two cars. The police said investigations revealed that a silver grey Polo and a blue Ford Focus were travelling in opposite directions when they collided head on and caught fire on impact. Both drivers who were the only occupants inside the vehicles were burnt beyond recognition. The cause of the accident is still unclear, investigations are under way. In Gauteng, a 42-year-old man will appear in court this week following a drug bust at the OR Tambo Interna tional Airport by an intelligence-driven operation by an integrated multidisciplinary team last week. Police said the suspect was travelling to Mahé Island in the Seychelles archipelago. He was allegedly carrying heroin with an estimated street value of R112000. At the weekend, councillor Matlala Kate Mphahlele addressed the community of Diepsloot about service delivery matters and the crime rate in Diepsloot. Mphahlele commended the police along with community patrollers for their hard work during the festive season in keeping Diepsloot safe and  secure. Vispol commander Col Mohale expressed concerns about people selling dagga, nyaope and other drugs to young children. The community raised concerns of the issue of drug lords who continued to conduct their illicit business with impunity. Mohale said undocumented tenants were among the contributing factors to crime in Diepsloot. He advised landlords to conduct background checks on their prospective tenants to avoid accommodating criminals in their yards. provinces@thenewage.co.za -KEITUMETSI MOTLHALE