THEY will be on a revenge mission when Orlando Pirates host Ajax Cape Town in the Nedbank Cup last 32 at Orlando Stadium on Saturday. The 3-0 humiliation they suffered against the Urban Warriors last month is still fresh in the minds of the Buccaneers and that will motivate them in their home fixture. That defeat to Ajax was also Pirates’ first this year, having enjoyed a good start with four victories and a draw. Having bounced back to winning ways against Maritzburg United at the weekend when they were made to work hard for their 2-1 victory, they go into this match with momentum and fully aware that this is one of the two remaining trophies they can lay their hands on this season. Coach Milutin Sredojevic is targeting next season for his side to challenge for titles on all fronts as he feels they will be far better than are now. “There is a good example in world football in Manchester City. You saw how they looked last year and how they are looking this year,” Sredojevic said. “We have our game model and vision. We are pushing towards that vision. We have the highest possible ambition on the local level in all the cups available. “Pirates also have high ambition regarding the CAF inter-club competitions. We want to be remembered for leaving a legacy that people will remember us by. “Our dream is to put at least two stars on this club badge. For that to happen we have to keep with the process and improve with every game. “When the final product is delivered, you will see.” The Buccaneers are still in with a chance to lift the PSL title as they are only five points behind log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns in second place. But Sredojevic said they are not bothered with their league position as their main aim is to continue to improve every outing. They will also be looking to do better this time around in the Nedbank Cup having twice lost finals to SuperSport United in successive years. But first they will need to get past Ajax Cape Town before they can think of going all the way. What will please the Serbian coach, however, is that his side are now finding the back of the net with everyone chipping in goals. They have only failed once this season to find the back of the net and that was in their 3-0 defeat to Ajax at Cape Town Stadium, with players like Thabiso Kutumela, Ntsikelelo Nyauza, Luvo Memela, Mpho Makola and Happy Jele all scoring. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za