African National Congress (ANC) Treasure General Paul Mashatile said the parliamentary caucus has asked the speaker to allow for a motion of no confidence against President Jacob Zuma on Thursday. Mashatile said President Zuma was given until Wednesday to resign or face the no confidence motion. He said the party could no longer wait for yet another day on the matter. “For us as the leadership of the ANC, we can not wait longer than today. We can’t continue waiting. The decision was taken and it must be implemented.” Mashatile was briefing the media in Cape Town on the decision communicated to ANC caucus on the recall of President Jacob Zuma. ANC’s chief whip, Jackson Mthembu said parliamentary rules allowed for an amendment of any motion, that was before them. Mthembu said the ANC will be talking to other parties in parliament, including the EFF to support them on the motion. He, however, said the EFF refused to withdraw their motion adding that their option was to amend the motion but not the substance of the motion. On the question of when will be the new president be sworn in, Mthembu said that will depend on the availability of the Chief Justice. “Depending on availability of the Chief Justice tomorrow, we might as well elect and swear in a new President. The sooner these matters are dealt with, the better.” The chief whip further said if the new president is elected on Thursday, the party will push for a Sona to be on Friday and the debate on Monday. Wednesday’s ANC caucus meeting is the second one the party has called in the last week to discuss matters related to Zuma’s removal. The meeting took place amid the request made by Mthembu in which he asked parliament to convene a chief whips forum meeting which took place on Wednesday at 8:00 am. “In light of that, the chief whip has requested that the meeting of the Chief Whips Forum (comprising chief whips of opposition parties) that normally meet on Wednesday at 10 am be shifted to 8 am tomorrow morning,” Parliament said in a statement.  The Parliament’s day to day business has since been put on hold to allow the majority party to discuss President Zuma’s removal from office as head of state. -Sipho Jack   