HE STOOD on the same balcony but this time, unlike 28 years ago, there was no Nelson Mandela next to him. No microphone for him to hold for the just released ANC leader. He was there as a member of the ANC. Indeed, he was there yesterday to launch the ANC celebrations of what would have been Mandela’s centenary. Cyril Ramaphosa has come a long way since that hot Sunday of 28 years ago – he is now the president of the ANC. There was no sign of the man he replaced as ANC president, Jacob Zuma. Yesterday’s rally was also, as ANC chairperson Gwede Mantashe said in reference to Ramaphosa’s nickname, being held on Buffalo time. It started about five minutes after 2pm. This was a sign of change – rallies habitually started late under the previous ANC leadership. There were other signs of change as well. Many were boldly walking around with new T-shirts that displayed the countenance of the new ANC president. Unlike that day of Mandela’s release, the Grand Parade was surrounded by a ring of steel yesterday. Any person who wanted access to the historic open air venue had to go through a security check point. Body and bags were searched. On the Grand Parade itself vendors were selling ANC regalia. Religious leaders opened the event with prayers. Khaya Magaxa, interim chairperson of the ANC in the Western Cape, said he was grateful to the leadership of the ANC for launching the Mandela celebrations in his province. “We hope the spirit will rejuvenate us to go all out to bury the DA once and for all. Today we are here to reclaim this Western Cape as the ANC.” Cosatu said it wanted an ANC that was going to put the issue of jobs at the centre of its mandate. It also called on the ANC to fight corruption without fear or favour. Cosatu said Zuma must be recalled. The SACP urged the ANC to expedite Zuma’s recall, adding that the matter of his resignation was not just an ANC matter. It was a SACP and a societal matter. The SACP also called for the reconfiguration of the alliance, asking for a government of alliance unity. news@thenewage.co.za -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN