AS THIS year’s edition of the Comrades Marathon approaches, the KwaZuluNatal sport and recreation department is determined to see the province’s athletes emerge tops in what’s regarded as one of the world’s most gruelling ultra marathons. The department’s MEC, Bongi Sithole-Moloi, said the department was looking forward to producing the top eight runners in this year’s race. “This year, I want at least position one up to eight to be occupied by the runners from the province of KwaZulu-Natal. This is to show that we are serious when we say KZN is a winning province. We are going to work even harder to ensure that the desired purpose is achieved,” Sithole-Moloi, said. She was speaking on weekend in Escourt at the inaugural UmtsheziWembezi marathon which was started in honour of the KZN premier who hails from the area. Winners from the male and female categories were each awarded a R10000 first prize money respectively. The MEC also pledged to pump in more money to ensure that the Umtshezi-Wembezi marathon also grows into a recognised brand. “Although the event has not yet been named as it was created in a swift response to the premier’s request, it will be held by the department annually. In next year’s edition, we will feature the junior competition which will see young children from nine to 13 locking horns in a 5km race,’’ Sithole-Moloi. Beside the current event, the MEC also announced that more athletics competitions will be created across the local municipalities across the province, especially rural ones to unearth athletics talent. “We will work hard to create competitions of this nature across the province. The idea is to create an incubator that will produce runners that will compete in the Comrade Marathon. As the department we want at least position one up to eight to be occupied by our athletes from KZN,” Sithole said. Alfred Duma municipality mayor Jabu Mbhele, who hosted the premier’s marathon said she was glad that the municipality had finally had its own athletic competition. “It is a great thing for the municipality to host such an event because it contributes in the creation of local economic development,” she said. news@thenewage.co.za -TNA Reporter