THE Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Rights of Cultural, Religious and Linguistic Communities (CRL) has warned pastors who are abusing congregants to know they are fed up and willing to testify in court. This comes after Lethebo Rabalago – the Doom pastor – was sentenced by the Mookgophong Magistrate’s Court to a R30000 fine or three years in prison suspended for 18 months on five counts of assault. Rabalago, who was sentenced yesterday was also fined R6000 or a year in prison for contravening the Agricultural Remedies Act. Thoko Mkhwanazi, CRL Rights Commission chairperson said they were happy that the pastor was found guilty of spraying people with a pesticide meant to kill insects and that they were part of the process of the prosecution of the case. “We did say there were aggravating circumstances and that if possible he should be given a custodial sentence. However, we accept the decision of the magistrate in this matter and we are hoping this is going to be a lesson to other people who want to abuse congregants. “We want to stress that there are no laws that allow us to arrest any pastor who are abusing congregants unless there are members willing to press charges and testify,” Mkhwanazi said. During closing arguments the pastor’s lawyer argued the pastor had not sprayed anyone with Doom since May last year and a prison sentence would no longer satisfy the public interest because that had already been done through a high court interdict against Rabalago. After sentencing, Rabalago’s lawyer Edmond Lubisi made an application to pay the fine in R3 000 instalments and the court agreed, saying the law permits it. During mitigation of sentence last week, Rabalago took to the stand to plead with the court for leniency. He said that he was the breadwinner at home and looking after his disabled mother who uses special shoes to walk. The Prophet of Doom first made headlines when a video circulated on social media showing him spraying insecticide on his congregates to heal them. Lethebo said he used Doom to heal people suffering from diseases such as cancer and HIV, it was reported. In March last year, the Limpopo High Court ordered that Lethebo stop using the insecticide on churchgoers. -DIKELEDI MOLOBELA