THE spokesperson for the African National Congress Youth League (ANCYL) Mondli Mkhize has said the majority of members in the executive are eligible for retirement, adding that Cabinet was like an old age home. He said the leadership of the ANC has committed a serious error in overlooking the youth. This, he said, was informed by three factors, firstly the National General Council of the party agreed on a policy that would see 20% youth representation in senior positions of governance. “That would have to be honoured and when you speak about the 20% representation in Cabinet you are looking at about 14 posts,” This figure is a reflection on both ministers and deputy ministers he said. Not adhering to this policy isn’t showing confidence in the ANCYL. This could be because of the stance the youth league took in the run up to the presidential race of the ANC, he said. “It would be very bad for the leadership to start on that note. It’s very bad,” he said. Secondly, he said the executive had to reflect on the population of the country comprising more than 50% of youths. Mkhize said that if the representation in government wasn’t reflective of the nation it was disregarding that sector of society and that the leadership wasn’t consigned to just members of the NEC to be placed in the executive. Mentioning people such as Ronald Lamola and Collen Maine, he said the ANC missed an opportunity to catapult the young in the organisation into governance. “We strongly feel the leadership of the ANC must at all times implement decisions and resolutions of the ANC without ignoring others and looking at others,” Mkhize said. He said that the removal of ministers like Stella Ndabeni-Abrahams, who is a recent graduate from the youth league, was incorrect and that removals shouldn’t be looked at through the lens of state capture because there are other ministers who have remained in
the executive, although implicated. “After all, this is the year of Nelson Mandela and we should be affirming the youth, because it is that generation, at its young age, that took the fight against apartheid to the fore,” he said. National spokesperson of the ANC, Pule Mabe, said that the youth league was an autonomous structure that had a right to reflection on issues, especially when issues affect the constituency they led. He said that this autonomy also gave them the muscle to express their views. “I’m sure that there will be continuous engagement between the youth league and the ANC to make sure there is a common understanding,” Mabe said. Furthermore, he said that the appointment of the Cabinet is the prerogative of the president, albeit in consultation with ANC. This consultative process also include officials and alliance partners. The New Age attempted to get comment from the presidency but it had no comment on the matter. The new deputy ministers are Sfiso Buthelezi for Agriculture, Communications, Pinkie Kekana in Finance, Mondli Gungubele in Public Service and Administration, Chana Pilane-Majeke in Small business development, Cassel Mathale in Public Enterprises, International
Relations, Reginah Mhaule. hlonim@thenewage.co.za