KAIZER Chiefs coach Steve Komphela is fully aware that their destiny in the Absa Premiership is no longer in their hands and can only hope log leaders Mamelodi Sundowns collapse in the final run to the title. Chiefs are seven points behind Sundowns with 10 matches remaining before the end of the season. Komphela however, still feels they got a chance – but admitted that they will need Sundowns to flop in their remaining matches, while Chiefs win all theirs. “It is going to be tight and competitive and in as much as we are mainly looking at ourselves as Kaizer Chiefs and Mamelodi Sundowns, we should not forget our neighbours (Orlando Pirates),” Komphela said. “They are also in the mix and we have to factor them in. It is going to be interesting and it’s good for the Absa Premiership and the game in South Africa. “I hope all of us in this industry can benefit and grow with this. It only makes the brand of football in South Africa more competitive.” Sundowns, Pirates, Chiefs and Cape Town City are all in the running for the league title and are all also in the Nedbank Cup last 16 following their victories at the weekend. Chiefs defeated Golden Arrows on Sunday and Komphela said they will give their best in the remaining two matches. “it’s not going to be easy but we will have to give it a go. “It’s not over just getting three points and Sundowns dropping three. Anxiety builds with still all the matches to go, there is no room for mistakes, so it is going to be intense.” Having welcomed back Bernard Parker from injury – who scored against Arrows on Sunday, Komphela feels they will benefit a lot from his experience “Parker can also play wide. Parker will help experience wise. On any given day, he can play anywhere, he’s got football brains. “He understands apart from affecting the game with the ball, how to organise teammates and give confidence. “So we will benefit from that, now it will be just a question of the difficulty in making choices between Leonardo Castro, Gustavo Paez, Dumisani Zuma, Ryan Moon and Parker. “It is a nice headache but we are welcoming him back, he came through nicely against Arrows, he held the ball well … you could see the man playing with confidence and I don’t remember him losing the ball and that’s what you want from Parker because if he doesn’t lose the ball he’s deadly and will win the match for you.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za