DAY Zero in the Cape has now moved from May to June 4, the city of Cape Town said yesterday. Day Zero is the day when taps will run dry and locals queue for water. The city yesterday said the day had shifted from April to May and now to June, due to the continued decline in agricultural usage and also as a result of Capetonians reducing their water consumption, in cooperation with the city’s efforts to bring down demand. The city’s deputy mayor, Ian Neilson, said: “Team Cape Town, we are getting there. We now need to see how low we can go to ensure that we stretch our water supplies as far as possible into the winter months by reaching the 450 million litre per day collective consumption target which equates to 50 litres per person per day.’’ Over the past week, consumption had been lowered to 526 million litres per day. This is the first time that the weekly average usage had remained under 550 million litres due to the city’s pressure management interventions and the efforts by residents to use as little water as possible. “Importantly, dam levels are only at 24.9% compared to 36.1% last year and 43.3% in 2016. Though the dam levels are much lower than a year ago, we have more information and more control over the system that supplies water to the city. Our continued interactions with the national Department of Water and Sanitation have led to much improved data-sharing and analysis, allowing for more reliable modelling and dramatically improved control over dam levels,” Neilson said. A year ago, the average water demand was 830 million litres per day and the weekly change in dam levels was 1.9%. Two years ago water usage was more than 1 billion litres per day, resulting in a weekly change of 2.1%. “If our dam levels were dropping at this rate, we would reach Day Zero before the end of March. “Our dam levels declined by 0.6% over the past week. It is absolutely clear that when we need to pull together in this city, we can do so. If we continue to work as a team to lower our consumption to 450 million litres per day as required, we will become known as one of the most resilient cities in the world. “We are fast becoming a leading example of a large city that is fundamentally changing its relationship with water,” Neilson said. He further said they were grateful to the farming sector, especially associations such as the Groenland Water Users Association, for their water transfer to the Steenbras dam and to the national Department of Water and Sanitation for facilitating this supply injection. In accepting this transfer, he said they acknowledged the sacrifices that many in the farming sector had made during this extreme drought. Neilson said the city would continue to implement pressure management to reduce usage, to install water management devices on the properties of high users and to conduct blitzes to ensure that all water users adhered to the water restrictions. All preparations for the possibility of reaching Day Zero also continue as planned. “We must all keep doing absolutely everything in our power to reach the target set by the department to reduce our urban usage by 45%. Level 6b restrictions make it compulsory for residents to use no more than 50 litres per person per day to stretch our dwindling supplies through summer and into the winter months and thereby avoid the drastic step of having to queue for water,” Neilson said. news@thenewage.co.za -TNA Reporter