SINCE the publication of Viceroy’s research report on Capitec bank, the lender has disclosed that an extraordinarily large portion of its subprime, highly indebted customers who miss payments on their loans that are somehow able to find the money to “catch up” or “cure” their arrears, Viceroy said yesterday. It said that this move was “suspicious” and that several former Capitec staff as well as five debt-counselling firms with proprietary data sets on South African unsecured lending, supported its thesis that this “curing” method is how Capitec hides the disastrous underlying performance of its loan book. “If a borrower in arrears is able to beg or borrow the funds from a secondary lender to pay down their arrears and make themselves ‘current’, Capitec immediately offers them a new, larger loan. “The borrowers use this new, larger Capitec loan to pay off the secondary lender used to cover the arrears” Viceroy said. Capitec yesterday told the New Age in response to the allegations that it extended an open invitation to Viceroy to contact it to clarify any questions about the industry and the bank. “We encourage anyone with allegations of wrongdoing to share the information and documentation with the National Credit Regulator or other relevant regulators, so that the normal regulatory processes can be followed. This applies to Viceroy as well,” Capitec said in a statement. “Capitec operates in one of the bestregulated financial industries in the world. Various regulators and government institutions have confirmed their support of Capitec since the release of the Viceroy report. “In addition, international independent rating agency, Standard & Poor’s, said that the report had no bearing on its rating of the bank.” The research firm was adamant that analysis of tens of thousands of Capitec borrowers’ data sets within debt counselling firms showed consumers were able to get new loans after paying down their arrears the day prior. It said the practice was still occurring at Capitec bank. Viceroy said one can contrast Capitec with the lending criteria of a Standard Bank or Absa where there is a “cooling off” period before a borrower formerly in arrears can seek a new loan, to prevent exactly this behaviour. “By offering upsized loans to people who have just cleared their arrears, Capitec management is able to say with a straight face that they do ‘not lend into arrears’. It is true in fact but not in substance,” Viceroy said. Capitec told the New Age that it would not engage in mudslinging and it remained committed to “full disclosure and transparency”. Viceroy said that Capitec was fundamentally “uninvestable” and reiterated its recommendation that an investigation by an independent body be launched in the face of the evidence presented in the research. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za