As the curtain is set to close on the future of President of South Africa Jacob Zuma, it is important that we are reminded of the role his administration has played on the past nine years of being in charge of the country. The achievements of the Zuma regime Intensified the fight against Aids and TB When he took over the presidency in 2009, President Jacob Zuma announced the biggest HIV/AIDS treatment in the world following years of denial and obfuscation by the Mbeki’s administration. The government introduced the provision of condoms for both males and females, and the biggest mother to child transfusion fight in the world. To date, South Africa distributes more ARVs than any other country in the world. Tourism is growing at a steady pace throughout President Jacob Zuma’s second term The country experienced exponential increases in the number of tourists that visited the country during his term. A lot of tourists arrived in the country from fellow members of BRICS. The country had tourists arriving from China, India, Brazil and Russia to name a few. Some attributed the increase to the weaker Rand which to some extent is true. BRICS South Africa joined a prestigious group of growing nations during Zuma’s term. The country became a member of BRICS which seeks to encourage economic activity among the member countries. Youth employment incentives Zuma’s administration encouraged new innovative ideas to encourage employers to give opportunities to young people as they are the ones who are most affected by the unemployment disaster. His administration introduced subsidies to companies that employed young people and for them to take an opportunity to give opportunities to the youth. Square Kilometre Array telescope The country was chosen by its peers to host a Square Kilometre Array telescope, which is the largest telescope of its kind. The telescope will be available for use by all scientists from across the world. This is another feather in the hat for Msholozi. Construction of a pipeline between KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng Transporting of fuel from KwaZulu-Natal and Gauteng used to be a very costly exercise. But when Msholozi’s administration took over, he introduced the construction of a pipe between the two provinces. Shortcomings of the Zuma regime Zuma’s alleged corruptibility Even before he took over the presidency of the ANC, Zuma had more than 700 charges hanging over his head which are set to be reinstated once he leaves office. His financial advisor Schabir Schaik was sentenced to 15 years for corruption and Zuma was severely criticised during Shaikh’s sentencing. His Judgment Many have criticised President Jacob Zuma for his poor judgment and for not thinking things through. It was few years before he took the presidency of both the ANC and the country when reports of rape against him emerged. President Zuma was accused of raping the daughter but was subsequently acquitted. He also confirmed that he had fathered the child of one of his friend’s daughter. In 2010 confirmed that he was a father to Sonono Khoza’s daughter, Sonono is a daughter of Irvin Khoza, who is also Zuma’s friend. Poor Economy and currency Zuma came to power following the devastating economic meltdown of 2008. The country’s economy has been performing poorly ever since. It does not seem like there is a commitment on his administration to make sure that our currency and economy are revived and become among some of the best performers in the world. His closeness to the Guptas Perhaps one of the biggest scandal to ever come out of the Zuma administration is the rise of the Gupta family and their influence on president Zuma. New information seems to be coming out every day detailing their alleged corruption and how corruptly the president’s name is always mentioned. His inability to take advice Many are currently criticising president Zuma for his forthright and the vigorous way he is pushing through the nuclear deal despite advice that the country cannot afford it. Zuma and his Energy Minister David Mahlobo seem to be forthright commitment to make sure that it materialises. -TNA Reporter 