THE Thabo Mbeki foundation was among the first civil society organisations to react to the decision by the ANC to recall President Jacob Zuma. The organisation yesterday welcomed the recall and insisted that many South Africans had been calling for Zuma’s removal for a long time. “It has been obvious for many years that the interests of our country would be best served if indeed Mr Zuma ceased to be president of the republic,” the foundation said. “We therefore welcome the decision announced today by the national executive committee of the governing party, the ANC, to recall Mr Zuma as a deployee of the ANC in his capacity as president of the republic,” the spokesperson for the foundation, Thami Ntenteni, said. The foundation further called on Zuma to communicate with the Speaker of the House of Assembly and tender his resignation. This Zuma should do as a disciplined and loyal cadre of the ANC and out of respect for the Constitution of the country, the foundation said. Together with Future South Africa, the organisations called on the ANC to ensure that the President abides by this resolution and if necessary is removed from office by a vote of no confidence before the end of this week. “This was because among others, he faces the possibility of prosecution for alleged criminal offences and is directly associated with negative developments such as the alleged corruption of various state bodies, such as state-owned enterprises, the National Prosecuting Authority, state capture and serious economic mismanagement,” Ntenteni said yesterday. While FutureSA said it hoped that the end of President Zuma’s era will be the start of a “clean up campaign” to end corruption and state capture and the restoration of the constitutional vision of social justice, equality and sovereignty of the state. “We believe the decision to recall Zuma is the culmination of a long campaign, led by South Africans from all walks of life, civil society organisations, faith leaders, trade unions, business, coalitions, members of the opposition, ANC members opposed to corruption, whistleblowers and honest public servants, the media who have exposed state capture and ordinary people,” spokesperson for the foundation Zaakirah Vadi said. The organisation said that it had been obvious for many years that the interests of the country would be best served if indeed Zuma ceased to be president of the republic. “We recognise, however, that these are extraordinary times and that each day Zuma serves in the highest office of the land is a danger to society. More South Africans have fallen to greater levels of poverty because of his government’s actions. “Some of his ministers are alleged to have not only stolen from the people, but they also threaten the provision of social grants to millions of people. His cronies treat state-owned companies as their personal toys. State institutions only serve as his protection racket and can no longer serve their lawful purpose,” FutureSA said.– 701787 -TNA REPORTER|news@thenewage.co.za