CAPE Town executive mayor Patricia de Lille survived a motion of no-confidence by a whisker yesterday but her problems are far from over. Shortly after the DA’s motion of no confidence was defeated 110 to 109, the party indicated that she would still be hauled before a disciplinary hearing to face a number of charges including corruption. Only 109 councillors voted in favour of the motion and 110 against at the special council meeting with three abstentions. De Lille said despite relentless efforts by certain party leaders to get rid of her, the vote showed that the truth would always survive. Before voting took place she walked out of the meeting after the Speaker Dirk Smit ruled that the vote would be open. De Lille had asked for a secret ballot. Western Cape High Court Jjdge Robert Henney had ruled on Wednesday that the DA caucus must be free to vote for or against the motion in accordance with the dictates of their conscience without fear of discrimination. Advocate Dali Mpofu, representing De Lille had argued before court that she would survive the no confidence vote only if voting was secret. He told the court the secret ballot was the only way to protect councillors from the DA bosses who they feared might intimidate or even fire those who voted against the motion. Reacting to her victory, an elated de Lille said justice had at last prevailed. “I thank the opposition parties for seeing beyond party lines and voting on a matter of principle.” She said that all allegations against her should be tested in a transparent process. “It took an enormous amount of bravery by the DA councillors who supported me today. I thank them for their courage and for voting with conviction. “All of these untested allegations are used to smear my name.” A relieved De Lille said the motion arose from the fact that she was already found guilty on untested allegations. “All of these untested allegations were used to smear my name for the past six months. Despite relentless efforts to get rid of me, the vote yesterday shows that the truth will always survive. I maintain that all allegations must be tested in an open and transparent process.” De Lille reiterated she remained open to subjecting herself to due processes and to exercise her right to give her side of the story. The motion of no confidence came after the DA laid bribery and corruption charges against De Lille. vincentc@thenewage.co.za