MY LONG-AWAITED interview with veteran actor, academic, arts administrator and playwright Jerry Mofokeng wa Makhetha almost did not materialise due to my late arrival at the Sasani Studios, where the man who has for the past five years kept Scandal viewers glued to their screens as he plots and schemes his way out in and out of trouble. A week earlier, at the launch of the South African Film and Television Awards (Saftas), I introduced myself to the actor and indicated what a pleasure it would be for me to interview him and he obliged me without thinking twice. A week later I find myself panting, huffing and puffing as I am one-and-a-half hours late for the scheduled interview with one of the great actors, but lucky for me the 62-year-old acting guru is a patient and forgiving man. He had already finished shooting for the day, but did not find it hard to wait a bit longer than usual to wrap things up and go home. I find him nestled on his dressing room chair, reading his script while playing with a toothpick in his mouth. As I am ushered in, I fumble for words of apology and with a smile, the venerated actor flashes a smile that says, do not worry about it. After all, Mofokeng has made being a villain much more complex and life threatening as the Inkatha henchman and killer Duma Nkosi, one of the first post-apartheid politically-charged life miniseries, The Line, back in 1994 and now as the self-serving double crosser and street smart Neo Mokhethi on Scandal. I had expected a tongue lashing. After all, who keeps a legend waiting? I should have been ashamed of myself but now that I am forgiven, I sit down and to avoid wasting any more of his time. I calm myself down and get on with it. The legendary actor, who saw the need to study acting formally at a time black people were still battling the horrors of apartheid and protest theatre was the order of the day, tells me family means everything to him. ”I believe in the dictum ‘a family that eats, prays and plays together is the foundation of everything’,” he said. This is even far more remarkable in an era where the glitz and glam and the pressures of impressing peers and fans makes it hard for one to stay level-headed, but for the awardwining actor, this is what makes him and his close-knit family who and what they are. For instance, his children as well as grandchildren help him go through his lines on a daily basis. “Whenever my granddaughter visits us, she makes sure that she records all my scripts and helps me to prepare for my scenes. It is a family thing and everyone chips in and helps and I also do the same with their careers,” he said. After all, he was already a married man when he entered the industry formally and he attributed much of the success and ability to stay on course to his wife of 38 years, Claudine, who has been his pillar of strength during the happy and the not-so-happy times. “My wife had been observing and supporting me in my early days of acting in the township of Soweto. She is the one who practically told me to follow my passion and study acting as I would be miserable for the rest of my life if I did not. “Remember I was much older at 27 years when I went to study at Wits (University) and there I was as the only black student among a sea of white students in the class. I was only black in the second-year class as well as the fourth-year class. So you can imagine how circumstances were during those days,” Mofokeng said of his early days as a student actor. The actor who has dedicated more than 40 years of his life to the craft said he is not about to slow down as artists do not retire. “There is no retirement option in our industry. Like Miriam Makeba and others, I will die on stage and besides, there are always roles for old versatile actors and for me retiring is not an option,” he said. The versatile actor has been described as a mentor to younger actors and an all-round family man. While he has had a long list of accolades and continuous work, he admitted to a dark time when his car was repossessed and was depended on his wife’s salary. “I was once so broke that my car was repossessed. Here I was the so-called famous actor having to take a taxi like all ordinary South Africans. I had already left Wits and the Market Theatre and work was scarce, but through my wife and her salary we weathered the storms as a family – my wife has been a big pillar of strength and my support structure,” he said. At 27 in 1982, the married father of one auditioned for acceptance at Wits and so his professional journey began in earnest. Three years later, he received a scholarship to study at Columbia University and lucky enough, the actor was able to take his family over to make his time there a bit bearable. “Things were different back then as you needed to get the minister of education’s permission to register at Wits. There I was among a few black students in an education space dominated by white students far younger than me as I was 27 years old at the time. “When I arrived at Wits in 1983, there was only one black student in fourth year, Julius Ntsaka. In third year was Themba Wakashe, second year was Ntshabeng wa le Roli and he was the only one in first year. “The scholarship made things a bit easier for me as I was able to bring my family along. However, as a student, I was not allowed to work and so depended on my wife’s salary as a nurse. “There were times when we did not have the luxury to buy new clothes and other items and would collect whatever the Americans disposed of on the streets. “This really humbled me and contributed to the kind of person I am. I will never buy a car I cannot afford or change my car for a new one because I want to impress people that I am celebrated actor. This is the kind of life that my stay in America taught me,” he said. It was at Uncle Toms Hall in Orlando West as well as through youth organisations that the now darling of the local acting industry cut his teeth and polished his abilities doing impromptu sketches and plays. “I did not set myself out to be an actor, but after honing my skills acting in local theatre, and specifically at Uncle Toms Hall, the bug bit when people asked me to perform for them on a regular basis. So I began to take acting a bit more seriously as a result,” he said. On his return to South Africa in 1992, the actor had to dig deep to re-establish himself in the acting industry amid sweeping changes happening in the country’s political landscape. “I returned to find myself in South Africa undergoing massive changes. It was a bigger shock returning to the country having experienced the fast pace of New York. I found things to be a tad too slow and often had to adjust myself to the country’s pace. “I then joined the Wits Drama School as a lecturer and also had the opportunity to be absorbed by the Market Theatre as artistic director. “My first project was Drum Beat and The Line, both instrumental projects that introduced me to South African audiences as I was an unknown actor due to the fact that I had been away. “Even though I was not really known, I was lucky enough to be hand-picked by the producers of The Line, a very controversial miniseries tackling the South African political fights between the ANC and Inkatha. Things took a turn for the best as it was nonstop work from then onwards,” the actor said. He said the local music fraternity and Scandal set will never be the same after the death of two close friends, Hugh Masekela and Sandy Mokwena. “I locked myself in here when I heard the news of the passing of Hugh and Sandy. Hugh was very close to me and he supported me and my work and would often perform for me for free whenever I had a project that needed his help. “Sandy was very close to me and because I found him here on Scandal, I doubt it will ever be the same without him,” he said. siyabongas@thenewage.co.za