THE DA failed in its attempt to use a recent high court ruling on the credibility of Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba to stop him from tabling his first Budget speech in the National Assembly yesterday. Before Gigaba could deliver his maiden Budget, DA chief whip John Steenhuisen told speaker Baleka Mbete that the decision of a full bench of the high court had been brought to the DA’s attention. In view of that decision, Steenhuisen said, Gigaba was unsuitable to be a minister of state delivering the Budget. Mbete was not persuaded by the DA chief whip and advised Steenhuisen to raise his objections in a substantive motion. Gigaba delivered his speech amid jeers from the opposition, with Steenhuisen occasionally hurling insults such as “you lied under oath”, “no one believes you” and “you have to resign” at him. The finance minister also presented his Budget in the absence of the EFF which boycotted the sitting because President Cyril Ramaphosa had not given in to their demand to replace
Gigaba in the Cabinet. The criticism of Gigaba was not the only jolt for Ramaphosa in Parliament yesterday. The portfolio committee on mineral resources has resolved, in principle, to institute a full-scale inquiry into allegations of state capture that have been made against Mineral Resources Minister Mosebenzi Zwane. The decision was taken after Zwane failed to appear before the portfolio committee yesterday. “The committee could no longer entertain further postponements from the minister and took a decision to institute an inquiry,” committee chairperson Sahlulele Luzipo said. “Members had outstanding questions from the initial Q&A session and they now reserve their right to ask them during the inquiry,” Luzipo said. On Gibaba, Steenhuisen earlier implored President Ramaphosa in a statement to remove Gigaba from the Cabinet as a matter of urgency – following damning remarks made about him in a court judgment. Steenhuisen said that, according to a court judgment, that was only recently made available to the public, a full bench of the high court in Pretoria – in the matter of Fireblade Aviation v Minister of Home Affairs Case No: 85376- 2016/93450-2016 – had made a number of damning findings against Gigaba. The judgment was as the result of an application by a private company which had sought a declaratory order to compel the (then) Home Affairs minister to abide by a decision he had taken to allow the company to run a customs and immigration service at a privately owned airport operation. At the time, it was alleged that Gigaba had revoked the approval he initially granted, following pressure from the Gupta family. According to the judgment Gigaba was found to have “… deliberately told untruths under oath”. One of the judges, Judge Tuchten, concluded that “…the Mminister has committed a breach of the Constitution so serious that I could characterise it as a violation”. Saying that these findings were unequivocal, then DA said that it formed the basis of its complaint to the public protector to investigate Minister Gigaba for his breaches of the Constitution, the Executive Members Ethics Act and the Executive Ethics Code. “This is the true test for President Cyril Ramaphosa and his party – steps must be taken to remove Minister Gigaba as a matter of urgency. “The ANC must prove to the South African people that it is serious about taking action against yet another one of their colleagues who has been found to have violated the Constitution for the benefit of the Gupta family. “Should they fail to act, it would amount to a serious indictment on the ANC under President Ramaphosa’s leadership,” Steenhuisen said. Conceding that it has called for Busisiwe Mkhwebane to be removed following a court finding against her for incompetence and misconduct, the DA said it has faith in the institution of the office of the public protector to conduct this investigation into Gigaba in accordance with its constitutional mandate. “The DA will continue to do all in its power to ensure that Gigaba is held directly accountable for undermining the country’s laws in this disgraceful manner.” news@thenewage.co.za