Jazz trained soul singer Langa Mavuso who is signed to Black Coffee’s label, Soulistic Music, is a big fan of music education, which he said has definitely helped him articulate his ideas. The 23-year-old musician, who is passionate and driven by music and performance is making waves through his soulful voice and heart-stirring song, Sunday Blues. Before meeting Black Coffee, Langa spent time honing and mastering his craft with the release of his debut EP, Liminal Sketches, in 2016. It was the star DJs sister Amanda who sent Langa’s music in Black Coffee’s way and after being impressed by his talent, he sent out his team on a search for the singer who is now working on his debut album. “Black Coffee’s sister Amanda is the one who shared my video which she saw Twitter and he contacted me for a collaboration. This led me to share more of my music with him and led to him offering me a contract which we spent months negotiating until I finally signed in August last year.” The singer describes his sound as urban soul and said he is in the process of releasing a “game changer” of an album. “I will always try to reflect the times and spaces I inhabit, the people and experiences I know but also the hopes and dreams I have for myself. This can translate into a deeply emphatic piano-based rhythm and blues song or sometimes as an electro-beat driven tune. The music and feeling manifest itself in many different ways. “The album is still in the process of being recorded and I haven’t named it or even considered how it will be rolled out. It’s still a process of hit and miss with each session. I think it will be a game changer though. I’m working with people that I trust and respect a lot. It’s an exciting experience for me because it’s my first album.” On working with a predominantly dance driven record label, Mavuso has no qualms about his musical direction. It’s been an interesting venture to take for myself and the team at Soulistic. I’m certain about my brand identity and as a musician, I like to play as long as the music is still centred in a soul. “It’s always interesting to see how they translate my sonic ideas into something that can be commodified. I try to be part of the process always so to make sure that we’re all moving in a direction that I have envisioned and that I endorse fully. It’s a truly collaborative journey that we’re on. Their previous work and artists are simply a testament to what they can achieve not the formula,” he said. For Langa, music education had to happen and he enrolled to study jazz at the University of Cape Town and learnt quite a lot about music and life. “I would say, music education has definitely helped me articulate my ideas and communicate them well with other musicians when I create new music and when we prepare for shows. The history we learn while studying music also showed me that it’s always important to innovate in music. This is how we keep it evolving and growing, we look back to move forward. We learn and transform,” Langa said. siyabongas@thenewage.co.za