The marriage between opposition parties the EFF and DA in two of the country’s biggest Metropolitan municipalities could come to an end if the DA does not change its attitude towards land expropriation. This was the straight-forward warning issued by EFF leader Julius Malema to the opposition during a debate on the State of the Nation Address in Parliament on Monday. Newly elected President Cyril Ramaphosa delivered his maiden Sona in the National Assembly on Friday. Malema told DA leader Mmusi Maimane that their continued coalition in Johannesburg and Tshwane would only continue if the DA changed its stance on land expropriation without compensation. “I want to warn you about that because it is a fundamental issue which is going to make us fight with you because anyone opposed to the expropriation of land without compensation is the enemy of our people,” Malema said. #SONADebate Malema on land expropriation: Anyone opposed to the expropriation of Land without compensation is the enemy of the people #Dstv405 pic.twitter.com/XPHFss8ChN — ANN7 (@ANN7tv) February 19, 2018 Earlier in his speech, Maimane had called for land redistribution to be done in a manner which respected the rule of law but ruled out expropriation without compensation. “Expropriation of land without compensation is incompatible with a growing, flourishing economy. You can have one or the other but never both,” Maimane said. The DA and EFF coalition in the metros has previously been fraught with challenges since the two came together following the 2016 municipal elections. Previously, the EFF had warned that its loyalty to DA-led coalition agreements in the biggest metros, was not a blank cheque for it to undermine smaller political parties. The EFF last year also boycotted municipal council meetings in DA-led metros following a fallout between the DA and UDM over the removal of Nelson Mandela Bay deputy mayor Mongameli Bobani. Meanwhile during his response to Friday’s Sona, Malema also took aim at President Ramaphosa, accusing him of bluffing with regard to land expropriation without compensation. “It is an emotive issue and you only mention it if you mean it. When they took our land, they never attached any conditions, they just killed our people,” Malema said. During its recently held national conference, the ANC adopted as its official policy land expropriation without compensation. However, scant details have emerged since then about how the process and policy will be rolled out. -Siphiwe Mchunu