AJAX Cape Town coach Muhsin Ertugral will want to prove that the 3-0 hammering they gave Orlando Pirates was no fluke when they meet in the Nedbank Cup last 32 at Orlando Stadium on Saturday. The Urban Warriors recently defeated Pirates 3-0 in the league at Cape Town Stadium and will be looking to continue where they left off on Saturday. Ertugral however, is expecting Pirates to come out firing as they will be eager to revenge that defeat by beating to the next round of the competition. “It will be a different game altogether,” Ertugral said. “I can’t wait for the kick-off at Orlando stadium. I know how difficult it is for opposing teams to play in Soweto. “Milutin Sredojevic is a great coach and they are very close to success under his guidance. We know how difficult this game will be. “They will come at us, but I think they’ll be a little bit more cautious this time around.” In that match, Pirates dominated possession as they put Ajax under pressure and were caught three times on counterattack which all resulted in goals. Yannick Zakri scored a brace but, according to Ertugral, he won’t be available for this match due to an injury he picked up at training. “Yannick picked up an unnecessary injury and it will take two to three weeks to heal a muscle tear. “Mosa Lebusa is also injured and has a tear as well, but we have full trust in our goalkeeper Jody February, who I spoke to three weeks ago, saying he would get the cup games. “This game would’ve been his anyway, as he came in for Brandon Petersen who was concussed against Pirates. A concussion needs time to heal.” Ertugral will be putting their hopes on striker Tendai Ndoro to do the job for him against his former side. “Tendai is not a big player who takes on players like Yannick, he’s a different player, more in the box, so he’ll have to be more forward to score goals.” Pirates on the other hand will be desperate to avoid another defeat to Ajax as they can’t afford to exit the competition so if they are to finish with something to show this season. The Nedbank Cup and the league are the only titles they can lay their hands on this season and the club cannot afford to be embarrassed again by Ajax, especially at home. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za