JUSTICE Maphosa has a simple philosophy: “If I can educate one child, I would have liberated an entire household.” The Big Time Strategic Group CEO, famed for hiding Zimbabwe President Emmerson Mnangagwa at his Pretoria home after he was axed by Robert Mugabe, wants to leave a legacy. It’s a simple legacy – he wants to unshackle as many young, black South Africans through educating them. “I’ve produced countless graduates. At any given time, I’m paying university fees for 15 students,” the modest Maphosa says. Clearly, the self-sacrificing CEO is not just looking to make money but rather to spend his time and energy helping the less fortunate, an undertaking that has seen him adopt two schools. It is no surprise that most of his employees and associates describe him as selfless, compassionate and driven. Without a doubt, Maphosa was born to do business. He had his first hand in business as a 13-year-old as he sought to supplement his parents’ meagre salaries that could barely sustain the family. “I think I was a businessmen from birth. I remember I used to keep money and my mother would beat me up and take away the money for groceries. I would find odd ways of keeping money. “I made money almost in everything. I was a gardener at a young age and I used to sell tomatoes too. “At some point, I took photographs of my schoolmates at a cost because I needed to raise money. “There is basically nothing I have not done. I had my own taxis when I was young I also had a Vodacom container,” he says. He also reveals how, at some point, he would quickly do his class assignment so he could help his classmates at a cost. Such was his affinity for business. His first serious business was Computer Ink, which was started in 1998 and he has never looked back since. Computer Ink sold recycled printer cartridges. Fast forward, three decades later and Maphosa runs a fast-growing multinational business with interests in ICT, agriculture, property, insurance, aviation, transport and logistics, as well as energy. “My company recently took a board resolution to this effect of investing 90% of our funds into the Zimbabwe economy. We are not apologetic about investing in Zimbabwe. Our investment will speak for itself,” he says boldly. Before the success and fortune, Maphosa was just an ordinary boy who was partly raised in Zimbabwe and moved to SA in the early 1990s when he was in his teens. Growing up in Cape Town, away from his family, Maphosa has lived much of his life with strangers. Interestingly, he is grateful for that. “I would probably be living in my family backyard if I had not grown up with strangers,” he says. He reveals that living in South Africa during apartheid days was not easy at all. “I couldn’t say where I was from or who my parents were. “We would say we are from Khayelitsha or Johannesburg. It hurt a lot as a child because instead of embracing your youth you are cautious earlier than you should be,” he adds. Having been raised in poverty, the selfeffacing businessman says he made a decision he would work extremely hard. “I hate poverty,” he says repeatedly. His hatred for poverty is the reason his company goes big on Corporate Social Investment (CSI) programmes. The devoted believer says Big Time Strategic Group belongs to God and he will never hold back the company’s proceeds from the underprivileged. “I would not be where I am had it not been for God. This company belongs to God. I can never ignore poverty when I see it,” he says. Without a doubt, one of his greatest passions is education and over the years he has partnered with like-minded organisations to assist pupils from marginalised backgrounds. He almost sheds a tear when he talks about a school he adopted in the Eastern Cape – Upper Corana. “The first time I visited Upper Corana I was wearing a jacket, my wife even had gloves on. I saw a five year old walking barefoot. I thought to myself ‘she knows no reason she has been put into such disarray, she knows no reason she has no shoes yet accepts her fate’. It challenged me and I made a decision I would try to make a difference,” says Maphosa. At the time, the school had 30 pupils and teachers had left because of the deplorable conditions. He says he was touched by the level of poverty he saw in the area. “I was told there was a lot of bunking school, and juvenile delinquencies.” Big Time undertook to pay salaries for 10 teachers, and provide two meals for the pupils every day. “My thinking is that kid who eats at 3pm is not preoccupied by hunger, she knows I’m gonna eat in the morning.” Big Time also provided two buses to the school to ferry kids to school as they stay far away. The sight of poverty, he says, always reminds him of his childhood. “I can’t just look at poverty and pass. It reminds me of how I grew up and who I am. It reminds of the white porridge I used to eat without sugar. So I can’t let that happen to the kids.” Next week, Big Time will donate full uniforms to about 338 pupils at the school. Each child will receive a pair of shoes, socks, shorts, a shirt, sun hat, jersey and school bags as part of the company’s CSI programme. Maphosa says he wants to be remembered as an African who had all the traits of an African. He adds that giving is healing to his own wounds and past pains. “If poverty doesn’t hit you then you are not a human being. If the pain of another person doesn’t hit you nothing will. “We are born with compassion, so when I give I soothe my own scars from the childhood. When I give its therapy for me. I have come to terms with the idea that I was once poor but now I can do something for those who are poor, I am also able to appreciate my own achievements,” Maphosa says. He now wants to make a difference by contributing to the rebuilding of the Zimbabwean economy. “I am Zimbabwean at heart. In and out. We as business need to assist our government to reduce poverty and promote inclusive growth. Let us remember that Zimbabwe has never fully recovered from the economic crisis that peaked in 2008,” he says. In a few months’ time, Big Time will launch nine subsidiary companies in Harare. He has noted that the formal sector in Zimbabwe accounts for just 350 000 people in terms of employment. “For us to take the stage and our place in Africa, this picture has to change. Because this means most Zimbabweans can be classified as working poor, doing precarious work with irregular incomes in agriculture and the informal sector.” He sees the long bank queues and petrol station queues as an opportunity. “If not us the kids of Zimbabwe, then who will? Our mothers are there, our sisters spend half their days there, not to mention the stress and trauma for our old parents. Zimbabweans need to wake up and do it for themselves and stop thinking that a saviour from outside of us will come in one day and do it for us.” Maphosa believes the future millionaires of Zimbabwe will come from the agricultural sectors of the economy. He shares a close relationship with President Mnangagwa after he rescued him when his life was reportedly in danger. The astute business leader sees the man popularly known as ED as an exceptional leader and a father figure, who will champion the cause for a new Zimbabwe that is thriving, working and solving its problems internally. “l have met him as you heard him speak and tell all of you about his struggles when he was fired and ended up in South Africa. “I am fond of him. He is a likable leader who never misses a moment to educate you about this and that as a young man, when you do find a moment to sit down and quiz his brain. I have no father, mine passed away, so l always take time to learn from the aged, the old and those with wisdom,” Maphosa says. His view is that business should assist the Zimbabwean government to unlock investments. “With abundant natural resources and a relatively literate population, Zimbabwe is well-placed to attract a large share of the investment being funnelled through South Africa into the rest of the continent.” The country’s mining industry, according to Maphosa, has already proved its capacity to attract investment, as long as global commodity prices recover as expected. Maphosa also looks up to former president Thabo Mbeki for his policies, beliefs and his Africaness, and the kind of leader he is. With such determination inside its walls, Zimbabwe can only rise and bounce back to once again being the breadbasket of Africa. DIKELEDI RAMABOPA  