PRESIDENT Jacob Zuma is set to announce his resignation as leader of the country today. Sources in the presidency and the ANC confirmed to The New Age last night that Zuma has agreed to abide by the ANC national executive committee’s decision to recall him. “The president has reflected on the party’s decision to recall him. He has made the decision to step down in the interests of rebuilding unity within the ANC and the country. He is likely to elaborate on the reasons for his decision through an address to the nation,” said the sources. Yesterday, secretary-general Ace Magashule announced that the party’s NEC resolved to recall Zuma as a deployee in the government. “The NEC decided to recall its deployee, comrade Jacob Zuma, in accordance with Rule 12.2.21.2 of the ANC constitution, which accords the NEC the authority to “recall any public representative”, Magashule said. Magashule said that Zuma had committed to respond today to the NEC’s decision to recall him. “Tomorrow the president will respond. We are not treating Jacob Zuma as a leader who is defiant and all that. I think we are engaging one our leaders who has contributed to the liberation of South Africa,” he said yesterday. Magashule said that following marathon discussions with Zuma, the NEC decided to recall him after considering a “report of the officials that the president had agreed in principle to resign and had proposed time frames extending from three to six months”. “While appreciating Zuma’s proposal, the NEC noted that South Africa was going through a period of uncertainty and anxiety as a result of the unresolved matter of transition. Further, that this uncertainty and anxiety would erode the renewed hope and confidence among South Africans since the 54th national conference of the ANC.” He also said that the decision to recall Zuma was part of a strategy to restore integrity to the party. “We are determined to restore the integrity of the public institutions, create political stability and urgent economic recovery. “Some of the matters we are contending with are the opportunistic manoeuvres by the opposition in Parliament including motions of no confidence in the president, calls for dissolution of Parliament and other desperate acts. The ANC’s approach to this matter has, at all times, been informed by the interests of the South African people.” Magashule also said the NEC’s decision was final. As a result of the ongoing uncertainty over Zuma’s position, the government also announced that today’s Cabinet meeting, normally chaired by the president, had been postponed. “The government wishes to announce the postponement of the Cabinet meeting for this week. We are alive to the developments taking place in the ruling party. “The government reassures South Africans that service delivery will not be impacted upon,” Communications Minister Kubayi-Ngubane said. In another development related to Zuma’s recall, ANC sources said he was unlikely to face any disciplinary action if he defied the party’s instruction to step down as leader of the country. When asked if the ANC would slap Zuma with disciplinary procedures should he refuse to resign. ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe said yesterday that what Zuma decides today was not in the ANC’s control. “We should not be asking each other questions on things that are not in our control. At this stage, we should not be pre-empting anything,” Mabe said. Legal advisors who did not want to be named also poured cold water on the possibility of Zuma being charged for ignoring the party’s instruction. “The ANC cannot charge Jacob Zuma in terms of its own constitution. If he refuses to resign the party will have to invoke a process of finding a way to remove him. That process would have to take place in Parliament where the ANC would have to make a case that it has lost confidence in President Zuma’s leadership,” they said. “In terms of the ANC constitution the party cannot remove an MP unless the MP has been found guilty of a serious charge in a disciplinary hearing and slapped with sanctions. “A way out for the ANC in the event of President Zuma refusing to go would be to place on the order paper its own motion of no confidence. This can appear on the same order paper as that of the EFF’s but can be differently motivated. “If the ANC decides to do this it can decide not to vote when the EFF’s motion is on the table, but vote for its own motion.” Sources said that should Zuma fail to heed the ANC NEC call, the motion of no confidence would go ahead and the majority of ANC parliamentarians would support the motion. -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@thenewage.co.za