Freedom Under Law (FUL) advocate Wim Trengove on Wednesday told the Constitutional Court that former President Jacob Zuma‘s explanation that it was former National Director of Public Prosecutions (NDPP) Mxolisi Nxasana who requested to leave the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), was irreconcilable. Trengove said Zuma got rid of Nxasana because he wanted to minimise the chances of him being prosecuted, therefore abusing his powers by replacing one NDPP with another and in the process, violating the constitutional requirement of prosecutorial independence. “He used public money to have his way and did it for his own personal benefit to minimise the risk of prosecution,” Trengove said. Trengove was speaking during the hearing of an application brought by Nxasana and current NDPP Shaun Abrahams, who wants to nullify a decision to remove him. Nxasana approached the court seeking to overturn a North Gauteng High Court dismissal of his application to submit an additional affidavit explaining how he reached a R17 million golden handshake deal with Zuma and to be reinstated. The court dismissed his request after it was submitted late by his lawyer and also ruled that it would not be just to reinstate him. In the same judgment, the court ruled that Abrahams’ appointment was illegal and should be set aside and he be replaced by someone appointed by then former Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa. President Cyril Ramaphosa last week withdrew the Presidency’s appeal on the constitutionality of the ruling that Zuma filed, opposing the ruling. FUL, the Council for the Advancement of the South African Constitution (Casac) and Corruption Watch had approached the Constitutional Court seeking to have a R17 million settlement between Nxasana and Zuma, which was reached in 2015, set aside. In his appeal papers to the court, Nxasana argued that he was appealing on the basis that the High Court did not properly consider all factors. “… particularly, my reasonable explanation for the delay in the filing of my affidavit and the prejudice to me if the late filing of my affidavit was not condoned.” He said he was convinced the court would have reached a different conclusion if his affidavit and its contents were considered. Nxasana also wants to return to his job to continue with the prosecutorial job he was prevented from doing, prosecuting Zuma. “The integrity of the office of the NDPP would be strengthened by the return to public service of a man who withstood an assault on his position for nearly two years for simply trying to do his job,” an excerpt from Nxasana’s submission said. The case continues. -TNA Reporter