AT LEAST 17 children with facial paralysis, cleft palate, cleft lip and burns will undergo surgery at the Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital this week. The Smile Foundation said the ages of the children range from just three months to 13 years old. The 23-year-old mother of a child born with a cleft palate said when she saw her baby for the first time, she thought that the nurses had done something wrong. “I asked myself a lot of questions about what could have happened to my son until the nurses explained what was wrong,” she said. The 39-year-old mother of a child born with the same condition said she asked herself a lot of questions like what kind of a baby did she give birth to. “I was scared because I had no idea what a cleft palate and cleft lip were. I did not know what kind of a baby this was and where he came from,” she said. Thandiwe Mthembu said her son was taken to a specialist for a check up and was transferred to Charlotte Maxeke for operation assessments. “When we got to the hospital, I felt relieved because I saw that there were other newborns that had worse conditions than my son. “I told myself that this has nothing to do with being cursed but one of the natural things a child can be born with,” Mthembu said. This marks the third year since DisChem Foundation and Smile Foundation started working together to help Gauteng children. Lynette Saltzman of Dis-Chem Foundation said: “We are very excited to once again support this academic hospital and the Smile Foundation in helping to make a substantial difference in children’s lives. We are a pharmacy that cares and we care deeply about our local community. It is a privilege for us to assist in this way.” A surgeon at Charlotte Maxeke Hospital, Prof Tim Christofides, said at least one in 3000 children are born with a cleft lip with or without a cleft palate. The surgeons said aside from the surgical assistance they will receive, all the children would also benefit from additional healthcare and transport support. “This support was provided to children during the Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital Smile Week last year and went a long way to growing awareness of what this hospital and the surgeons do here for children afflicted with facial anomalies. “Reconstructive surgery enables these children to integrate more easily into their communities. These operations are truly life changing for them. “On behalf of the Department of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery at Wits, I would like to thank the Dis-Chem Foundation together with the Smile Foundation for supporting the paediatric patients at the Charlotte Maxeke Johannesburg Academic Hospital.” The hospital was yesterday busy with cleft lip and cleft palate operations. –CHARLOTE HLANGWANE|charloteh@thenewage.co.za