The DA on Sunday announced it has laid new charges of bribery and corruption against embattled Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille. Speaking to ANN7, the DA’s federal executive chairperson, James Selfe, confirmed that the mayor was facing new charges after a businessman approached the organisation with new allegations. “We received an unsolicited affidavit from Mr Anthony Faul in which he alleged that the mayor had solicited a bribe and we did then alert Patricia de Lille’s attorney to this fact. But we have an obligation in terms of the Prevention of Organised Crimes Act to draw the South African police’s attention to any such allegation and we have fulfilled that obligation by drawing the police’s attention to it,” Selfe said. Selfe said that after the new allegations came to the DA’s attention, the party informed her legal representatives but they did not respond. The mayor is currently facing a motion of no confidence against her in the City Council and a pending disciplinary action against her by the DA. Meanwhile, de Lille has questioned the timing of the latest allegations against her, as the businessman has waited for over four years to come forward with these claims. The timing of this latest move raises many questions such as why this man, Anthony Faul is conveniently coming forward now when the DA is charging me for other matters. Firstly, why did he go to the DA first instead of going to the police? — Patricia de Lille (@PatriciaDeLille) February 4, 2018 Why did he wait almost five years to make these allegations? This seems to be the latest of a string of moves to taint my name by clutching at anything and informing the media before allegations are properly tested. — Patricia de Lille (@PatriciaDeLille) February 4, 2018 De Lille said the claims are efforts to damage her reputation and to get rid of her. I have repeatedly asked for a fair process yet the handling of this matter and the treatment towards me clearly attempt to sway public perception against me instead of giving me a fair opportunity to state my case and to test the allegations properly. — Patricia de Lille (@PatriciaDeLille) February 4, 2018 “I deny and reject the reported allegations with the contempt it deserves” however “Should criminal charges have been laid against me, I will cooperate openly and transparently with the SAPS,” de Lille said. -TNA Reporter