FORMER SABC acting chief operating officer Hlaudi Motsoeneng has been issued with a demand to repay R21m he owes the state broadcaster. The Special Investigating Unit confirmed in a parliamentary oversight committee meeting yesterday that the amount includes R11.4m for a “success fee” Motsoeneng was paid for securing so-called MultiChoice archives deal, DA member of Parliament Phumzile van Damme said yesterday. An additional R10.5m has also been claimed for damages related to the irregular appointment and dismissal of staff. Van Damme said: “It is to be welcomed that action against Motsoeneng continues. “It cannot be that individuals like Motsoeneng loot public institutions, resign or are dismissed and there is no further action. “All stolen money must be returned to the public purse. We, therefore, welcome the SIU’s action in this regard.” “The tide was now finally turning for Motsoeneng, the self-proclaimed organic intellectual,” she said. Van Damme noted that the SIU was also investigating eight of the contracts identified as being dodgy during the Parliament’s SABC ad hoc inquiry. “This also includes the questionable R460m contract with MultiChoice.” Motsoeneng, however, was not the only person implicated in the SABC ad hoc inquiry report. “Compromised individuals such as James Aguma and especially Minister Faith Muthambi must also be prosecuted for any wrongdoing.” The SIU planned to hand over an Interim Presidential Report on its investigations into these dodgy contracts to the office of the president on May 31, 2018. “The DA looks forward to receiving the final findings from the SIU in order for it to be scrutinised by the public and bring all those implicated to book.” The state broadcaster dismissed Motsoeneng last year after a disciplinary committee found he had violated its code of conduct by holding a press conference in April 2017. During the press briefing Motsoeneng lashed out at the SABC interim board and especially at Krish Naidoo‚ who he called a “sell-out”. According to then interim board chairperson Khanyisile Kweyama, Motsoeneng was sacked for misconduct, bringing the SABC into disrepute and also the relationship breakdown between employer and the employee based on the statements he had made about the SABC board and ad hoc committee, as well as about the judge who presided over some matters. news@thenewage.co.za -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN