MORE than 200 Johannesburg property owners could have their buildings expropriated without compensation if they do not come forward to claim them. The city of Johannesburg has identified 265 hijacked buildings, which it intends to return to the owners, but so far only 18 owners have been found. If the owners of the hijacked buildings cannot be located, the city will bring an application for a declaratory order to declare that the property has been abandoned and direct the Registrar of Deeds to register the property in the name of the state or its nominee. One of the 18 owners found was Phindile Phiri, whose property in Forest Hill, Johannesburg, had been used as a brothel and drug den for the past 20 years by its hijackers. Phiri said she married and moved with her new husband to another area, after which she got tenants to rent her property. “The tenants I knew were forced out by a hijacker. It became a brothel and a place to push drugs. When I asked them to vacate, they refused, they told me even police could not help me,” Phiri said. Another property hijacking victim and domestic worker, Lucy Mdebuka, 58, also managed to win back her property. Mdebuka spent years trying to redeem her house which was hijacked by a Congolese man who was recently found to own three different passports and three different names to con people out of their homes. She has spent the past year embroiled in a court battle to have the two men evicted from the house but even a South Gauteng High Court order obtained in August last year confirming her as the rightful owner did not help at the time. The expropriation is meant to address the Johannesburg housing crisis and a housing unit backlog estimated at 300000. There are 158000 individuals on the housing waiting list, estimated informal settlements stands at 190 and there are about 3000 individuals migrating to Johannesburg each month. To address the crisis, Johannesburg mayor Herman Mashaba said the city would consider entering into compliance agreements whereby the owners of the hijacked properties cooperated with the city to revamp their properties and use them as affordable rental
accommodation. “Should these property owners be unwilling to enter into such agreements, the city will not hesitate to commence expropriation proceedings in court,” Mashaba said. There are also terms and conditions which say that owners of the returned properties would have to pay for rates owed to the city. However, the Socio-Economic Rights Institute (Seri), which has been calling for affordable urban housing to be provided in the city, said there was nothing wrong, in principle, with using the city’s powers of expropriation to take control of buildings that are required for public housing, but that it is not fair of the city to force owners to renovate properties that are occupied by people who cannot afford to help pay for the renovations. “Either the city itself must subsidise the cost of the renovations and the increased rents that will have to be paid to keep a building in good condition, or it must find alternative accommodation for the people living in the buildings in order to enable owners to renovate at their own cost,” Seri executive director Stuart Wilson said. Wilson said the those same buildings the city was expropriating were already occupied by poor people who cannot afford high rentals. “Occupiers of those properties cannot be evicted without alternative accommodation but the city has not yet demonstrated that it has an adequate plan to provide accommodation
at a scale for people earning less than R3 500 a month. The city acknowledges that there are as many as 90000 people living in the inner city who need accommodation free of charge, or nearly free of charge. But it has the capacity to house only 1000 of these people,” Wilson said. In the past eight months, 15 property hijackers have been arrested, nine criminal dockets are before the courts and in December a property hijacker and his accomplice (an attorney) were convicted of fraud and sentenced to 15 years and eight years in prison respectively. ntombin@thenewage.co.za