THOUSANDS of commuters from Hammanskraal will be stranded this morning after the Hammanskraal Taxi Organisation and its drivers failed to resolve a route dispute that has brought taxi operations to a stop since last Wednesday. At the centre of the dispute is a R112m payment made by the Tshwane municipality to the taxi association in exchange for the association giving up a portion of the route to accommodate the bus rapid transit system. The agreement came into effect only a month ago and by last week, it had crumbled. The municipality paid R300000 to taxi owners for each of the 375 taxis operating from Hammanskraal to the city centre where part of the agreement was that the drivers would get a share. Drivers said that did not happen. While matters of money are being discussed, drivers are calling for the cancellation of the agreement and for the full route to be returned to them. “It is not about the money that the taxi owners got. “All we want is to get our route back. If not we will not be able to be back on the road. We are tired of being played,” one driver said. The agreement is that taxis ferry passengers from the township to Rainbow Junction which is a distance of 34km. From Rainbow Junction the buses ferry passengers for the remaining 13km into the city centre. This has decreased the taxi fare from R23 to R17, meaning drivers make less money weekly and get paid less. Yesterday, all parties were locked in a meeting but drivers say if the resolution is not what they want, they will not work. Commuters said they were equally stressed. “I travel to Sandton for work. I used to use the taxi to Bosman and take the Gautrain. Since the buses came on I’m always late for work. “How can I get to town without using the taxi services? Can’t we just go back to the way things were?” Tshwane MMC for roads and transport Sheila Senkubuge said even though commuters and taxi drivers said they did not want the interlink agreement, the agreement between the city and taxi associations was a permanent one. CHARLOTE HLANGWANE charloteh@thenewage.co.za