The Umkhonto we Sizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) has said, as a loyal association of the ANC, it accepts the mother body’s decision to recall outgoing president Jacob Zuma. The MKMVA was responding to Zuma’s announcement of his resignation on Wednesday night. Zuma announced that he was resigning with immediate effect, as a result of the ANC National Executive Committee’s (NEC) decision to recall him. He said he would honour the party’s decision even though he did not think it was fair. The MKMVA said it was of critical importance that the organisation spoke with one voice, in unison with the ANC. Spokesperson Carl Niehaus said the organisation saluted the ANC’s leadership for the political maturity and dignity in the statement issued following Zuma’s resignation, especially for the political leadership it provided at a critical time in the history of the ANC and the country. “Similarly, MKMVA welcomes both the tone and content of the statement that comrade Jacob Zuma made on the occasion of his resignation as president of the Republic of South Africa. In particular, we acknowledge as fellow soldiers our MK commander’s disciplined loyalty to the African National Congress.” Niehaus said the MKMVA also welcomed Zuma’s disciplined commitment to the
prescripts of the Constitution. “In having insisted that his eventual recall by the ANC and subsequent resignation must comply with Section 86 of the Constitution and the loyalty that he pledged when he was elected as president, comrade Zuma has provided all of us in the ANC and the country with great political guidance.” “It is a gift that he bestows on us and future generations, which we must accept with
reverence and ensure that we comply to it without exception.” Niehaus warned the ANC, as Zuma said: “Never to play into the hands of our
oppressors of yesteryear.” “All of us as members of the ANC should therefore never allow ourselves to become
divided and consequently weaken our ability to implement in full the resolutions for Radical Economic Transformation (RET) that were adopted by our 52nd National Conference at NASREC in December last year.” Niehaus said the MKMVA would fully support the newly elected leadership of the ANC and its president Cyril Ramaphosa, once he was elected as president of the republic, in every effort to implement Radical Economic Transformation. -TNA Reporter