FORMER speaker of the city of Johannesburg council, Constance “Connie” Bontle Bapela will be laid to rest tomorrow at Altrec Centre in Eastbank, Alexandra. The funeral service will take place from 8am-12pm. Yesterday, the Bapela family attended a special council meeting where the various political parties paid tribute to their deceased colleague, who died last week Friday. The mood was sombre as family members and colleagues battled to contain their grief while accepting wreaths and framed photographs of Bapela . Different political parties’ speakers described Bapela as a people’s person, humble, down to earth and as someone who devoted her time to serving people of the city of Johannesburg. Bapela had been involved in the liberation struggle as a young activist and throughout her life. “The local government sector has truly lost a wonderful leader in Bapela. Her dedication and contribution to the advancement of the local government agenda will live on. Bapela was very instrumental in advocating for the institutionalisation of the separation of powers and functions at local government while she served as the speaker of the city of Johannesburg,” South African Local Government Association president Parks Tau said. During the state of emergency in 1985 she was detained and spent three months in the Norwood police station cells. Her family were denied access to her. She was later taken to Joburg prison,where she was confined for three years without ever having been tried. While in jail, Bapela and other inmates launched Operation Phambana in order to draw attention to their prolonged detention. They burnt their prison beds to get the attention of the authorities and to be given the chance to appear in court. Because of this courageous action they were eventually released. Bapela became an ANC councillor in the city of Johannesburg metropolitan council in 1995 and served with distinction on several committees. Eventually she became the speaker in the council, a position she lost after the 2016 local government elections. ntombin@thenewage.co.za -NTOMBI NKOSI