Cosatu on Monday said President Cyril Ramaphosa’s State of the Nation Address (Sona) gave hope that it would lift the economy out of a recession and create employment for workers. The trade union federation said workers were pleased that it unveiled a serious programme to deal with corruption in the country, adding that Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba’s budget speech should emphasise job creation for all. Gigaba will deliver his first budget speech on Wednesday. Cosatu has listed what it expects from the budget speech. Jobs The Sona committed government to reindustrialise the economy, to boost manufacturing and increase exports. It committed to creating an economy that would absorb the millions of unemployed workers, committing to a sector by sector plan. Cosatu expects the budget to begin committing funds to that vision. “We expect the minister to further flesh out the planned jobs and investments summits and inclusive economic advisory boards. We expect more information on how government will ensure the economy’s reindustrialisation, the boosting of manufacturing and exports,” Cosatu said in a statement. “Further details are needed on how government will ensure that all spheres of the state are compelled to support local procurement and SMMEs.” Revenue Cosatu expects government not to throw the working and middle classes under the bus with Value Added Tax [VAT] and income tax hikes. It said it would not support any attempt by government to balance budget shortfalls and deficits upon the backs of struggling workers. Austerity The trade union federation has warned government not to delude itself into thinking that we can stimulate economic growth through an austerity budget and cuts upon service delivery. “The Sona committed government to efficient public services. This cannot be done by leaving teaching, nursing and policing and other critical posts vacant. Teachers cannot be expected to perform in classes with 120 learners and no toilets or text books. Doctors cannot be expected to save when performing 48-hour shifts. Nurses cannot be expected to cure when there are no medicines. Police cannot be expected to patrol when government plans to cut SAPS personnel levels.” “If government is serious about balancing the budget, let them cut the 78-member Cabinet to 30. Let them reduce the size of provincial cabinets. Let them announce cuts on politicians’ perks.” State Owned Enterprises Cosatu said it expects serious plans from Gigaba on how government is going to fix the mess that the “looters” have created in the country’s SOEs. “In particular, we need to hear when and how Eskom, SAA, Express, Mango and Airlink, SABC, Prasa, Transnet and Denel will be cleaned up and fixed. It is not enough to change boards. There must be comprehensive forensic audits, including lifestyle audits. Heads must roll.” Water Cosatu expects to hear an actual plan to rescue the Western Cape, Eastern Cape, Northern Cape and other affected areas in the Free State, KwaZulu-Natal, Mpumalanga and Gauteng, who’s existence is threatened by running out of water. “To date, we have seen chaos and political infighting and no coherent short, medium and long-term plan to ensure that all our people have access to water. To not do so is nothing short of treason.” Energy “We expect government to share a serious plan to ensure that no worker loses his job as our energy sector evolves. There must be a clear plan to reskill and redeploy and employ all energy workers.” Higher Education “We commend government for committing to free tertiary education for the working class. It needs to inform us how this will be achieved. It needs to be expanded to include the middle class. Tertiary frees need to be capped and not allowed to run out of control.” Basic Education “We expect to hear when mud schools will end. When will all schools have adequate supplies of teachers, text books, classrooms and toilets? The failure of Department of Basic Education to meet its infrastructure targets year after year is unacceptable.” Agriculture and Land Reform “We expect government to inform the nation when and how it will accelerate its land reform, restitution and redistribution programmes.” “This needs to include meaningful support for emerging farmers and protection from cheap subsidised imports. Slogans will not take us anywhere.” Health Cosatu has welcomed Ramaphosa’s commitment to fast-track the realisation of the National Health Insurance. “We expect the minister to explain how and when this will be achieved.” Social Security The trade union federation has applauded the president’s pledge to remove any person blocking the transfer of the paying of social grants. “We expect the minister of social development and the acting CEO of Sassa to be fired. Transport We expect the minister to recognise and announce the end of e-tolls and to unveil a serious affordable, safe and accessible public transport plan. This needs to include a serious plan to fix the collapse of Metrorail.” Housing Cosatu expects to hear from government how it will fast-track the eradication of informal areas and homelessness and to ensure that every home has decent sanitation and access to water and electricity. “Cosatu is ready to support the president.” “Now we expect government to show us how it will implement the Sona’s call to action.” -TNA Reporter