DESPITE the uncertainty over the fate of President Jacob Zuma, Parliament, starting tomorrow, will have a week filled with 43 committee meetings and workshops. Parliament’s Eskom inquiry is also scheduled to resume on Wednesday. Tomorrow the South African Post Office will brief the post and telecommunications portfolio committee on several issues, including its talks with the South African Social Security Agency about the payment of social grants. On the same day the Department of Basic Education will appear before the basic education portfolio committee with its report card on the 2018 school year that started last month. In what will be a busy Tuesday, the latest challenges facing the poultry industry will be presented to the portfolio committee on agriculture, forestry and fisheries by the South African Poultry Association and trade union, the Food and Allied Workers’ Union. The board of Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa, which last week failed to honour an invitation to appear before the portfolio committee on transport, is expected to be present tomorrow to discuss an emergency plan at Metrorail. Also scheduled to take part in the discussions are Metrorail, #UniteBehind, Department of Transport and the Railway Safety Regulator. Tomorrow the national Treasury will brief the standing committee on finance, portfolio committee on environmental affairs and select committee on the draft Carbon Tax Bill. The Special Investigating Unit will share with the portfolio committee on communications its SABC investigation report of 2011, as well the terms of reference for the 2017 SABC investigation. On Wednesday, the management of the South African Police Service will appear before the portfolio committee on police to explain its strategic direction, senior appointments, basic literacy audit and harassment policy, as well as the firearms amnesty. The portfolio committee on justice and correctional services will deliberate the Cyber Crimes and Cyber Security Bill, while the portfolio committee on public enterprises is scheduled to continue with its inquiry into corporate governance at Eskom. The South African Social Security Agency is scheduled to give the portfolio committee on social development a progress report about its progress in implementing an order by the Constitutional Court. On Friday, the Department of International Relations and Cooperation and the Department of Defence will brief a joint session of the portfolio committee and joint standing committee on defence on matters relating to SANDF involvement in international peacekeeping operations. The two committees are preparing to visit Goma in the Democratic Republic of the Congo in March to assess the deployment of South African soldiers there. Workshops are scheduled for tomorrow and Wednesday when a briefing on the Competition Amendment Bill will be given to the portfolio committee on economic development and standing committee on appropriations members. news@thenewage.co.za -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN