Police Minister Fikile Mbalula says that they working very hard to find the killers of former Bafana Bafana and Orlando Pirates captain Senzo Meyiwa who was murdered 4 years ago. Mbalula has pleaded with members of the public who have information that might lead to the arrest to approach the police. We are working very hard to find Meyiwa’s Killers if anyone has information please approach Saps and ministry by all means necessary. — Min of Police: Mr Fearfokkol (@MbalulaFikile) February 7, 2018 This comes after the recent allegations on the murder case. Allegations by a parody Twitter account, under the name @AdvBarryRoux, revealed information at the weekend around the alleged circumstances of the murder case and called for Mbalula’s intervention. I am out, you will hear from me tomorrow, if Fikile Mbalula doesn’t make follow-ups on what I just asked him, I’ll tweet the photos of Senzo Meyiwa’s docket & everything remaining. #SenzoMeyiwa  pic.twitter.com/WJD5Oo6YoW — Man’s Not Barry Roux (@AdvBarryRoux) February 4, 2018 The information caused an outrage as the user revealed detailed information, including the names of individuals alleged to have been implicated in the soccer star’s death. The information revealed by the twitter account claimed that Senzo was killed by one person among those who were in the house with him, not by robbers as it was initially reported. Senzo was murdered in October of 2014 at his girlfriend’s house in Vosloorus. The information disclosed by the twitter account has since gained attention with social media users calling on the police to act on the matter. Meanwhile, Senzo’s father Samuel Meyiwa described Senzo’s murder case as a disgrace and lambasted police for not doing enough to search for his son’s killers three years after his death. Speaking to eNCA, Meyiwa called on the police to act on these allegations that have been revealed. “Even the one who shot Senzo is known. I noticed on social networks everything that happened there [in the house], people who were in the house know everything that happened but they don’t talk, they don’t want to talk,” he said. -TNA Reporter 