THREE years after meningitis robbed little Tshepang, three of her hearing, she has finally been given a lifeline. Tshepang, of Snake Park, Johannesburg, was diagnosed with meningitis shortly after birth and was hospitalised for about four months. Yesterday she became the 100th patient to undergo a cochlear implant at Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital in Soweto in 12 years. She had to wait for more than a year and a half for the procedure. Her mother, Ariet Mogorosi, 36, who cried after the doctor informed her that the surgery was a success, is now looking forward to the healing process. Tshepang was previously given hearing aids, however, they did not help her. Mogorosi said her daughter’s hearing loss was the most challenging thing the family has had to go through. The little girl had to learn sign language to survive as she attended crèche. Clinical head of ENT department at Chris Hani Baragwanath, Razvi Ahmed described a cochlear implant as an electronic device that is put into the damaged inner ear. He say its stimulates through an electronic sound that comes through from a microphone and essentially that stimulates the nerve directly and allows sound to be produced. “Usually we wait for all the wounds to settle down and heal, which can take three to four weeks, sometimes up to six weeks, depending on their healing. “The audiologist will use the mapping that we got in theatre, which is the stimulation that we provided here and we see at which level they may hear at the start and those are the levels at which they start. They see the responses as soon as they’ve switched the device on. Usually that’s when they can hear,” he said. Ahmed said it would take a few months for little Tshepang to get her speech and other developments, however, the sound starts early. Zamantungwa Khumalo, audiologist and team leader of the implantable hearing devices team, described the 100th milestone as a big achievement as it allowed patients to gain access to such an expensive device and to gain access to hearing and speech. “It presently costs close to R280 000 for the implant and the processor on the outside but fortunately at Bara, patients don’t have to pay for the anaesthetics and the surgeon’s fees which are covered by the government. If you go the private route you have to pay for the hospital stay, the anaesthetics and surgeon’s fees, which can bring the price to close to R400 000,” the audiologist said. Khumalo said there were presently about 80 patients on the waiting list while about 15 patients needed to be upgraded as they have had the devices for the past five years. leratod@thenewage.co.za -LERATO DIALE