KwaZulu Natal Premier Willies Mchunu has said efforts to root-out corruption in the provincial government will get underway with lifestyle audits of officials in high-risk positions, beginning with supply chain management units. Mchunu made the announcement while delivering his State of the Province Address (Sopa) at the Royal Agricultural Showgrounds in Pietermaritzburg. The premier said the lifestyle audits would be carried out in collaboration with the South African Revenue Service (Sars). He said a “zero-tolerance” stance would be adopted towards corruption and warned that any officials found guilty would be severely dealt with. “We are absolutely committed to effectively combat fraud and corruption and reduce unauthorised, irregular, fruitless and wasteful expenditure,” Mchunu said. “We will instill a culture in our government where integrity is at the core of everything we do, through our proactive integrity management programmes in the public and private sectors. We also want to commit to a public-private coalition dedicated to combating fraud and corruption and promoting good governance.” The provincial government appears to be taking its lead on tackling corruption from President Cyril Ramaphosa, who also recently championed subjecting members of the executive to lifestyle audits. Meanwhile, Mchunu announced that the province’s job creation initiatives had managed to create 100 000 new jobs over the last year. “More will have to be done to address unemployment, and in particular, youth unemployment, which now stands at 38.6%.” Earlier in his speech, Mchunu took time out to acknowledge and thank former President Jacob Zuma for his leadership in the fight against HIV/Aids and a number of other key areas. Former President Jacob Zuma arrives at the Royal Showgrounds for KZN SOPA @ANN7tv pic.twitter.com/jQnVYixzOu — Phathisa Mfuyo (@thisamfuyo) February 28, 2018 Zuma was in the audience when the premier paid special tribute to him. He said: “We acknowledge the role you have played in the development and adoption of the National Development Plan, the fight and gains we have made against HIV/Aids as well as elevating South Africa’s international profile as a fully-fledged member of the BRICS alliance.” -TNA Reporter