FORMER president Jacob Zuma has described his successor Cyril Ramaphosa’s hosting of a farewell function in his honour as an “extraordinary” gesture, never before seen in his government career. An audio of Zuma’s speech was leaked to The New Age, and Zuma was heard thanking his former Cabinet colleagues for attending his farewell cocktail dinner on Tuesday in Tuynhuys, Cape Town. As jokes and laughter filled the air, Zuma showered Ramaphosa with praise for his magnanimity and for having afforded him the opportunity to bid his Cabinet colleagues “goodbye”. “Comrade President Ramaphosa, the Cabinet ministers and deputy ministers and officials, I must really thank you president to give me this opportunity,” Zuma said. “I think it is the first of its kind, it has never happened before. I’ve seen presidents coming and going. It’s the first time that I have been given an opportunity to say goodbye to colleagues. “I appreciate this, I don’t take it as just an ordinary thing,” Zuma said. The function was attended by ministers, deputy ministers and officials who served under Zuma’s leadership. The Presidency said that the private function was convened to pay tribute to Zuma for his “contribution to South Africa’s development during his nine years in office”. ANC KwaZulu-Natal interim committee co-coordinator and key Zuma ally, Sihle Zikalala, shared his reflections on provincial leaders who remonstrated against the decision of the ANC national executive committee to recall Zuma. This comes as members of the ANC were sent to ANC branches across the length and breadth of the country to account for Zuma’s recall. He said that while the ANC in the province respected the verdict of the ruling party’s highest decisionmaking body, the leaders feared a precedent being set to recall a head of state in consequence of the ANC’s internal electoral cycle not being aligned to the country’s election zwcycle. “It’s a question that every time there is an elected president of the ANC and someone is the president of the country, there is a recall. If we make that a tradition it will be a tradition that is not good for the movement,” Zikalala said. “There is a general view that the decision that was taken was not taken with proper consultation with branches, but that does not mean the national executive committee didn’t have the right to take that decision.” Regarding Zuma’s farewell function, Zikalala said that it was a good bridge-building exercise within the ruling party following Zuma’s recall. “I think that the dinner organised by President Ramaphosa is one of the correct gestures that tries to extend a hand of building unity within the organisation,” Zikalala said. The ANC MK Veterans Association president, Kebby Maphatsoe, commended Ramaphosa for the gesture. “It’s a comradely thing to do,” he said. -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@thenewage.co.za