THE Johannesburg high court will tomorrow hear the matter of the terror accused twins Brandon-Lee and Tony-Lee Thulsie. Pre-trial proceedings were postponed to allow for arguments on the constitutionality of the Terrorism Act. The twins were arrested on suspicions of plotting terrorist attacks on various Jewish institutions in South Africa and individuals as well as attempting to join terror group Isil. When they were arrested, the two were 23 years old and have been in custody since July 2016. State prosecutor Chris MacAdam said judgment was reserved and was likely to be handed down this month or next. The trial of a Springs couple accused of abusing their five children in their home will continue today in the North Gauteng High Court. The couple are on trial for 42 charges including rape, child abuse, sexual abuse, drug dealing and the possession of drugs. An arrest was made in 2014 after the couple’s son went to a neighbour for help. Meanwhile, the showdown between the mining sector and Mining Minister Mosebenzi Zwane over the controversial Mining Charter will commence today until February 21. The North Gauteng High Court postponed the case from the initial dates of December 13 and 14, 2017, at the request of the Chamber of Mines. The chamber approached the court after Zwane gazetted the new Mining Charter in June last year, asking that it be set aside. The chamber believes the charter will have a negative impact on an industry which is already struggling to keep afloat, if implemented in its current format. The Chamber of Mines claimed Zwane passed the Mining Charter unilaterally and did not engage with it on any issues. Zwane has suspended implementation of the charter until judgment has been handed down in the Chamber’s review application. Meanwhile, 14 Nigerian nationals who were arrested for public violence will appear in the Rustenburg Magistrate’s Court today. This follows after they were denied bail and their case was postponed for investigation. During their appearance, magistrate Ziphora Phage said the accused agreed with WO Phehello Khuduge that the safety of the accused was at risk and they also considered that most of the men did not have documents allowing them to legally be in South Africa. Prosecutor Walter Kutumela told the court that most of the accused had previous convictions for possession of drugs. shonisanit@thenewage.co.za -SHONISANI TSHIKALANGE