EIGHT people accused of fraud, corruption and money laundering related to the Vrede dairy project in the Free State, were yesterday granted bail of between R10000 and R200000, by the Bloemfontein Magistrate’s Court. The six men and two women appeared under heavy police guard and the proceedings were delayed for a few hours as scores of people wanted to force their way into the court. Some members of the media were also left stranded outside as the court was packed to the rafters. The sole director of Estina, Kamal Vasram, appeared later in the day after he handed himself to the police yesterday morning. The accused‚ Varun Gupta‚ Ashu Chawla‚ Kamal Vasram‚ Ronica Ragavan and Nazeem Howa, who all worked for the Gupta family and the Free State agriculture head of department, Peter Thabethe‚ provincial government official Takisi Masiteng and the national Mineral Resources Department chief of staff‚ Sylvia Dlamini‚ face fraud, theft, corruption and money laundering charges. Howa‚ Gupta‚ Chawla and Ragavan were handed R200000 bail each while Thabethe, Dlamini and Masiteng were given R10000 bail each. The state did not oppose bail for a suspect who in the affidavit assured the court that they were not a flight risk and promised to cooperate with the court. State prosecutor advocate Bulelwa Vimbani said the state was not opposed to bail being granted to the accused. Magistrate Papiki Moeng gave them strict conditions. He said they must report to the police stations where they lived twice a week‚ surrender their passports‚ not interfere with any witnesses and not leave the provinces where they reside. The affidavits of the accused were read out aloud by their legal representatives. Thabethe said in an affidavit he was not a flight risk and would cooperate fully with law agencies and agreed to hand in his passport if required. The 34-page indictment painted a damning picture of how the province’s senior government officials allegedly planned and helped the Gupta family to defraud the state through the looting of public funds. NPA spokesperson Luvuyo Mfaka said outside the court they were confident of their case. “We have sufficient evidence against the suspects,” he said. “Most of them have properties and other businesses in South Africa. We hope they remain here so that we get to the bottom of this.” Hawks spokesperson Brig Hangwani Mulaudzi said more arrests were imminent. “We are expecting to make more arrests in the next few weeks. We cannot at the moment name them but we are working around the clock to make sure that people account for their wrongs,” he said. The case has been postponed to August 17 for further investigation. Meanwhile, the Hawks confirmed that Ajay Gupta failed to hand himself in after he had agreed do so and was being sought. michaelt@thenewage.co.za -MICHAEL TLHAKUDI