NOTWITHSTANDING the economic challenges, Higher Education and Training Minister Hlengiwe Mkhize has welcomed and accepted the R57bn budget allocation to fund free higher education and training. The budget allocation will certainly go a long way in not only opening up financial access to higher education and training for needy students from poor and working class families with a combined income of up to R350000, the minister said. Also, while on one hand, the budget allocation will also assist in ensuring a continued smooth implementation the policy on free higher education and training, on the other hand it will also enable the department to focus on other issues that are very strategic in nature. The issue of the funding for free higher education and training, or where funding for free higher education and training was going to come from, has been the most contentious and at some stage it threatened to plunge the analysis of the discourse on free higher education and training into a midnight of paralysis. In addition to it being raised at various public platforms where the minister spoke, was interviewed or presented, this issue was also raised sharply in other of the minister’s consultative forums with stakeholders, including in the meeting of January 26. This was a consultative meeting between the minister and leadership of different youth and student formations. It was for the same reason that in response to the speech by the minister of finance, Mkhize expressed relief as she explained how this was presenting the ministry and the department to now focus attention on other issues of strategic imperative in nature if all a plethora of challenges facing the Public Service Sector Education and Training Authority (PSeta were to be addressed for once and for all. The minister has also reiterated the calls she made late last year for the establishment of a social partnership involving local and international partners operating within the PSET sector in other countries. According to the minister, such partnerships will go a long way in enabling the department to come up strategic fora for solution oriented engagement that c a number of issues beyond financial access, being successfully addressed. A cursory scan of some of the speeches that the minister has made to date reveal a number of issues that could possibly form part of the agenda for engagement between the minister, the department and other strategic partners. Top of the list is the issue about how to tackle the perennial challenge of skills deficit, that the country has been battling since the dawns of our democracy. While globally, on the African continent as well as in the rest of the developing world, the issue of skills deficit is largely blamed on the phenomenon of brain drain in the ’90s, as a problem, South Africa’s skills deficit started way back and this was on the eve of democracy, when out of the blue, fellow white South Africans who were in possession of some of the skills labelled as critical or scarce skills today, skills our economy so desperately in need of, decided to pack up their things and migrate to countries such as Australia, Canada, the UK and US. One issue that could also form the basis for the partnership that the minister is calling for, is the issue of structural-youth-graduateunemployment (unemployment as a result skills produced by our education system not being compatible with those required by the economy). This is notwithstanding another recent phenomenon which in academic literature as well as in anecdotal sources, referred to as unemployable youth. Compared to other forms of unemployment, such as cyclical and frictional, structural, within the context of skills deficit and underperforming economy, the persistence of structural unemployment raises serious questions about the ability of our education system to generate the required skills. In most of the engagements that the minister had with different stakeholders, aspersions continued to be cast around the relevance as well as the responsiveness of the curricula of most institutions of higher learning when it comes to addressing some the problems that continue to bedevil South Africa as a country. In some of the speeches she made, Mkhize also raised the issues of the transformation of the PSetasector and decolonisation. This is at the time when parallel to the discourse of free higher education and training, the decolonisation also seems to be gaining momentum. The issue of student support services, particularly in the space of technical education and TVET colleges, has been among the priorities of the department and the ministry. On one hand, initiatives such student support services to protect the investment that the government is making in higher education and training, particularly in technical education or TVET by serving as an antidote to the niggling and persistent reality of student underpreparedness that finds expression in academic illiteracy. With the pervasiveness of an entrenched mindset that anything that is free is or should be of poor quality and substandard in nature, the minister has cautioned students and teaching staff in those institutions of higher learning that are set to benefit from the investment that government is making, not equate free higher education and training to poor quality or substandard education. In order to ensure that the quality of free higher education is also of quality standard, issues of unqualified staff, will have to be a thing of the past. The professional development of staff at most of our institutions of higher learning would simply have to made a top priority through programmes that involves the retraining of existing staff and the recruitment of new staff. One of the issues that have found its way into the discourse of decolonisation is alignment of the curricula in terms of what is taught to students to make it relevant and responsive to the challenges in the country. In line with some of the issues highlighted in the announcement of free high education and training by former president Jacob Zuma around technical education, particularly the repositioning and rebranding of technical education, the minister has already identified TVET colleges as crucial partners in the skills revolution. The repositioning and rebranding of TVET is intended to deal with the enduring legacy of scientific management (and systematic division of labour), which under apartheid saw education in South Africa being dichotomously divided along the lines of theory vs practice, the hands vs the head, mental labour vs manual labour. Over the years, this has created a serious bias in favour of university education, with serious misconceptions and misperceptions about the calibre of students who opt for technical education as a career choice being depicted as those who are academically challenged, mentally incompetent, or are simply those who can only with their hands or are simply drop outs from universities. The minister also want the department and its partners to focus on the problem of an aging, dilapidated and limited infrastructure that we inherited from the Apartheid regime. The infrastructure we inherited from apartheid, was designed with the sole purpose of serving the white minority, while excluding the greater majority of our people and where necessary and where some form of infrastructure existed, to provide poor quality service to black people and other previously disadvantaged groups. The issue of student accommodation is linked to the issue of infrastructure. Last but not least, the minister wants to focus on the issue of social remittance, which unlike the usual emphasis on financial remittance, is about how to leverage on the ideas, technical know-how, knowledge, practices and the skills of South Africans living abroad. South Africa has a lot of patriotic and successful South Africans living abroad who have contributed some amazing ideas to the development and advancement of their host countries. Instead of focusing on remittance as narrowly defined in terms of the money sent home in a form of payment or as a gift, many countries across the globe are starting to embrace the idea of social remittance. Stanley Mkhize is a spokesperson for the Department of Higher Education and Training