AS TALK of his imminent departure from Mamelodi Sundowns simmer, Khama Billiat has made the extraordinary claim that he doesn’t feel he has yet played his best football. The attacking midfielder said not even the displays he put on show to help Sundowns in the CAF Champions League, or his efforts when he won the footballer of the year award two seasons ago, were his best. “I have not been where I want to be. The best football I dream about is where I can score more goals than I am doing now,” Billiat said. “To create more for the team and turn games on their heads because the potential is there. I want to do things that no one can question – to be more clinical when I find myself in good positions,” Billiat said. “This is what I am trying hard to do for the club. Even talk of what could happen at the end of the season does not affect that dream because I want to be a whole new Khama in every game. “I am playing with good players and that to me means I can get closer to that best level that I want for myself.” While news of his possible move remains on everyone’s lips, Billiat said he won’t ever disrespect his coaches, teammates and the club that all have contributed to his growth as an acclaimed performer. The winger said sulking is not something he would ever do to motivate a move, rather choosing to show everyone the best he can offer in whatever situation. “How is sulking going to help? I am at a team that has great players, great coaches and great fans. “I have to do right by them for as long as I am here. “I do not even feel like I am in prison as some people would say in a situation similar to mine,” the 27-year-old Zimbabwean said. “My issue is that I cannot have anyone question my effort. It is out of respect that I keep working hard and fighting for this club. This club deserves my all. “I also want to grow. I want to be better. I still have a number of seasons to give to the game and for that to happen, I have to give the game my best.” One thing that lights up Billiat’s eyes is to play in a side that has in it Percy Tau, Sibu- siso Vilakazi, Themba Zwane and Hlompho Kekana. Billiat has singled out Tau for praise, saying the country has a gem in the 24 year old. “You do not find a player with such talent still willing to learn. He can dribble, he can score, he can easily beat opponents and he still works hard. When you have him and all these great guys, you aim even higher. “That is why we are thinking of finishing the season with the league and the Nedbank Cup. We have a great squad and the right mind to win both. “Also, these for us will set the tone for the Champions League that we want to win again,” the Sundowns star said. The midfielder declined to talk about whether he planned to move to a local or overseas club by the end of the season, saying his main focus is on winning the season’s remaining trophies. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za