THE North West education and sport development department said it would intensify safety measures at schools and scholar transport across the province. This comes after a 17-year-old pupil was stabbed to death with a pair of scissors while on a bus travelling home in Taung about a week ago. The incident took place in Dikhuting village, near Taung. The bus was ferrying pupils in the afternoon when the incident happened. It is alleged that a fight ensued between a Grade 9 pupil, 15, and the deceased, Tshenolo Chwei, 17, who was doing Grade 10. It appears as if Tshenolo was stabbed in the head. In video clips taken by fellow pupils on the bus, the deceased bled profusely and his slumped body fell from the seat onto the bus floor, leaving a trail of blood. Some of the pupils could be heard crying as they realised the extent of the attack and watching their peer die. Education and sport development acting spokesperson Elias Malindi said they condemned the incident in which the Kebinelang Secondary School pupil was fatally stabbed. “We want to condemn the incident in all terms. Carrying dangerous weapons to school is uncalled for. The department will intensify its safety measures programme at various schools to address this matter. Keeping schools safe allows children to look forward to being in an encouraging environment that promotes social and creative learning. “We always make sure we meet the basic safety of pupils to ensure that they also feel comfortable at school. Promoting school safety creates an open space for kids to explore, learn and grow. We have provincial school safety units and safety committees across all schools,” Malindi said. He said they were working together with other stakeholders like the school governing body (SGB), the school management and police to resolve the matter. “We have an adopt-a-cop programme where we encourage pupils to display good behaviour wherever they go. The department has organised counselling for all pupils including those who witnessed the incident in the bus,” Malindi said. The family of the deceased (Chwei) said the incident left them distraught. The deceased’s aunt, Kedisaletse Chwei, said they expected a lot from Tshenolo. “Tshenolo was an intelligent child and we sent him to school for s better education, but we were called to collect his lifeless body instead. “However, what is done is done and what we need now is closure. As the family, we are not happy regarding the service we received from the police. “The investigating officer failed to update us about new developments regarding the case. Tshenolo’s death is devastating and what we expect is cooperation from the police,” Kedisaletse said. However, Taung police station cluster spokesperson Sgt Tebogo Thebe denied the allegations. Thebe said the family had been updated on the matter by the investigating officer. “The suspect is in the Matlosana Care Centre and he will appear in the Taung Magistrate’s Court for a formal bail application next week on Tuesday. “The investigating officer, Const Kudunyane, is in regular contact with them. Khudunyane has visited the family on numerous times to update them,” Thebe said. Tshenolo was buried on Saturday. –Newsnote OBAKENG MAJE