PATRICIA De Lille, who survived a motion of no confidence in the Cape Town city council last week, is planning to write a book on her tenure as the mayor of the Mother City. De Lille said the tell-all book will also deal with her current public spat with DA leadership. The party’s federal executive chairperson, James Selfe, has said the DA would like to wrap up disciplinary processes against De Lille by the middle of next month. De Lille, who’s been accused of corruption, maintains she has done nothing wrong and wants the DA to allow her fair process to prove this. She said the book will give insight into her time as the Mother City’s number one citizen. “This one will deal particularly with my five years or more as the mayor of the city of Cape Town, the sort of legacy and you know, just this whole DA saga. I’ve kept copious notes of everything that’s happened daily, I’ve got all the emails and everything.” Last week, De Lille lodged an urgent application in the Western Cape High Court to force a secret ballot in the noconfidence vote against her but the court left it to the council to decide on the issue where speaker, Dirk Smit, allowed the motion to proceed with an open vote. De Lille said her immediate focus now was to clear her name. The DA has instituted disciplinary proceedings against De Lille on the grounds of alleged maladministration and for bringing the party into disrepute. The party has also removed her from the city’s drought response team. Meanwhile, the ANC leader in the city of Cape Town caucus said the problems in the Cape Town metro leadership can not be pinned on any one individual. “We want De Lille to go, but she will go when we want her to go. We are not going to be dictated to by the DA. She will go on our terms. All the problems in the city of Cape Town cannot be pinned on one person. De Lille is not  the problem, she is part of the problem,” ANC opposition caucus leader Xolani Sotashe said. De Lille has maintained her innocence and challenged an investigation into the allegations against her. news@thenewage.co.za -TATENDA CHIRISERI