AN ENTHUSIAST for reimagining and reigniting spaces towards a just and inclusive society and activist for communities who have been denied access, Dr Marlene le Roux has made her mark as a voice for the disabled and abled. Artscape CEO Marlene Le Roux, who was raised by her grandmother, a factory worker and mother of an ordinary farm worker in Wellington, Western Cape has a background in the education sector where she taught at the gangster ridden Manenberg, was a subject advisor and addressed transformation within the sector. Dr Le Roux contracted polio when she was three and her grandmother and mother had to care for her without the help of hospitals when care for a rural child was not professionally available at that time. The two caregivers persevered and cared for her the same as the rest of the children in the family. The two maternal parents’ tenacity is much to be praised. Le Roux, who is the first woman and person of colour to hold the CEO role at Artscape, advocates for inclusion of the disabled community through various initiatives to transform the centre to have accessibility top of the agenda. Drawing on her own experiences of living with polio, she mentors company executives and government institutions on how to improve the working conditions of disabled employees. Le Roux is a jack of all trades and an epitome of a women who can do it all with passion and drive. She’s a mother, award winning volunteer and career women among many hats she wears. She spoke of the prestigious Commonwealth Point of Light award from the queen of England for her tireless work in the disability sector. The Point of Light awards recognise outstanding volunteers every day of the week – people whose service is making a difference in their communities and whose story can inspire others to creative innovative solutions to social challenges in their own communities and beyond. Le Roux said: “The Commonwealth Point of Light Award bestowed upon me by the queen is an honour I receive with gratitude and humility. “The responsibility of being the fifth recipient for South Africa will be a privilege to represent. “Volunteerism is a selfless and life work in order to create access, opportunities and empowerment to the communities I serve. I received this award for all people with disabilities in order to bring visibility and access to opportunities and employment in the mainstream of society.” Le Roux said serving and sharing her journey as a person with disability and from a rural community upbringing by her mum and grandmother their tenacity is testament of the ideals for an inclusive and harmonious society. “In South Africa, there were deep divisions along racial and gender lines under apartheid. The acceptance of people with disabilities is an ever-changing and ever-evolving process is all societies. “Historically, people with disabilities have been excluded from the majority of meaningful activities in society, including access to education, health and economic opportunities,” she said. She said that she hoped that the award would illuminate the civil and political will needed to create full access and equitable opportunities for all people with disabilities and the families who provided assistance towards the ideals of an all-inclusive society. The selfless mother spoke about her children, Aimee and Adam – who she lost to cerebral palsy. Speaking about Adam. She said Adam died just before his 16th birthday. “I had to employ two nurses to care for him when he was alive as he needed very specific care and could not help himself physically. “I have been given the opportunity to have had a son, Adam, with a disability and this taught me about life challenges especially mothers who nurture and the realities of the immense financial and logistical life tasks to be completed in order to be fully functional in society. “My daughter, Aimee, embraces inclusivity and allows me to practice my social activism with her endless support and dedication. “Adam lived a purposeful life, a life of peace and healing, all this without uttering a single word. He had a way of connecting with people when he was in a room, his spirit was clearly felt. “He taught us a few important life lessons, like humility. He taught us that worldly possessions mean nothing. Adam allowed me to be – what a glorious gift and absolute treasure was given to me for almost 16 years,” Le Roux said. “He also later lost his speech and became blind. Could not do anything for himself. “Adam was my light and that even though he could not speak he lit up a room with his presence and his soul. He could smile and make the world smile around him,” Le Roux said. His funeral was on August 25, 2017 and was attended by all leaders in politics, civil society, arts practitioners, artists and staff of the Artscape Theatre Centre with family and friends. “To be disabled and to become a mother with a disability is two different journeys. I realise that a woman with a disability is a journey on its own and I had to adjust and readjust and align myself in society and have a character of positive mindset and attitude that life owns you nothing is what kept me going forward in life. “The fact that what a child with a disability brings is no different to me than any mother with a child with a disability. “I’m appreciative that I at least had a job to be able to provide for Adam what he needed,” she said. Le Roux donated all Adam’s high technology equipment to Tembaletu School for Special Needs in Nyanga and to the Friends Day Centre at Alexander Hospital where Adam was cared for therapeutically when he was a child. This speaks volumes for her generosity and care for families with persons with disabilities. Speaking about her daughter, Le Roux said: “My 21-year-old daughter Aimee George is a student at the University of Cape Town (UCT). “Aimee is a music student at UCT and is following in her mum’s shoes as a singer. She is actually a jazz singer and has opened one of the stages at the Cape Town International Jazz Festival in 2017.” Le Roux dances and swims for fun and also visits the gym regularly to remain active and healthy. keitumetsim@thenewage.co.za