THE office of the public prosecutor in KwaZulu-Natal has challenged the notion that the killings at the Glebelands Hostel in Umlazi, Durban, were politically motivated. KZN deputy director of public prosecutions, advocate Cyril Thulani Selepe, who appeared before the Moerane commission yesterday, said the NPA was doing its utmost to secure prosecutions of arrested alleged hitmen operating at the hostel. “Glebelands has been a problem for many years. It is disturbing that people are killed just like that. In Glebelands you are killed and then it’s like nothing happened. “The challenge with the Glebelands’ murders was that people are aware of how a witness was killed while testifying at the Umlazi Magistrate’s Court, so they are afraid to come forward and who can blame them,” Selepe said. A case in point was that of Sipho Ndovela, 35, a state witness to a Glebelands murder case who was gunned down as he left the Umlazi Magistrate’s Court in 2015. His murderer, Mxoleleni Bhani, 28, was the first person ever to be prosecuted and convicted for the murder of a Glebelands resident. He was found guilty at the Umlazi Magistrate’s Court and sentenced to life imprisonment. Selepe expressed confidence that justice will prevail and those involved in the Glebe murders will eventually be successfully prosecuted. “As long as we have a strong team, we will defeat Glebelands. Witnesses are coming forward and prosecutions are being carried out,” Selepe said. “Another thing we found with Glebelands it that a majority of the killings are not politically motivated but pure acts of criminality.” This was also confirmed by evidence leader, advocate Bheki Manyathi, who informed the commission that of the 90 cases which were reported as political killings in the province, only 49 were to be considered. He said evidence presented suggested that the 41 killings were not politically motivated. When asked whether he was aware of any collusion between the police and criminals in making sure that political murder case would not reach court. Selepe responded that he could not “speculate” on something he had yet to witness in his 17 years as a prosecutor. The commission set up to investigate political killings in the province since 2011 continues with the EFF set to give evidence led by deputy secretarygeneral, Hlengiwe Mkhaliphi. SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO