Ghanaian speedster Bernard Morrison used a rare start to score twice in six minutes for Orlando Pirates on Saturday in a 2-0 South African Cup last-32 win over Ajax Cape Town. A defence-splitting pass and a perfectly weighted low cross set up the 24-year-old to break the deadlock three minutes before half-time at Orlando Stadium in Soweto. Morrison struck again three minutes into the second half when he held off several challenges to score from close range as goalkeeper Jody February dived the wrong way. The stocky west African attacker threatened several times to complete a hat-trick on a pitch that cut up badly in parts after a pre-match downpour. He was substituted with nine minutes left and was later presented with the official 5,000 rand ($420/340 euro) man-of-the-match award. “There has been a lot of speculation about me moving to Turkey so I wanted put that to rest and prove I am a dedicated Soweto Buccaneer,” he said. “I dedicate my two goals to the coaches who had so much confidence in me when I was struggling with injuries and form.” Those problems have limited the opportunities of Morrison since he joined Pirates from Indian outfit Delhi Dynamos in 2016. He made his senior debut at 17 and after playing for two clubs in his homeland, moved to the Democratic Republic of Congo and joined former African champions V Club. Success was particularly satisfying for Pirates, the runners-up in the past two editions of the Cup, as they were trounced 3-0 at Ajax last month in the league. Maritzburg United were another top-flight club to advance as they survived several scares against third-tier Swallows to win 3-1 in Soweto. Belgian Andrea Fileccia scored after 72 seconds for United only for Tshepo Mashego to equalise before half-time and there were no further goals in regulation time. Fileccia put Maritzburg ahead again on 98 minutes and Mxolisi Kunene ensured there would not be a shock result at Dobsonville Stadium by netting seven minutes from the end of extra time. Premiership outfit Chippa United had a 2-0 win at third-tier Phiva Young Stars virtually wrapped up within 30 minutes of the kick-off at Kabokweni Stadium in northeastern South Africa. Ayabulela Konqobe got on the end of a free-kick to stab the ball into the net from close range and Linda Mntambo burst through the middle to hit the second goal. Pirates, Maritzburg and Chippa were joined in the next round by Steenberg United, who eliminated fellow lower-league club Orbit College 3-1 in a Cape Town suburb. -AFP