Former President Jacob Zuma’s oldest son Edward says his family respects the ANC’s decision to recall his father. Edward also congratulated Cyril Ramaphosa on his announcement as Zuma’s successor. He said all members of the Zuma family including the former President will support Ramaphosa to lead the ANC into the election victory in 2019. Edward recently announced that he will be instituting charges with the ANC integrity committee against NEC Member Bheki Cele for his attack on Secretary-General Ace Magashule. Edward said he agrees with his father that the decision to recall him was wrong, baseless, emotional and driven by a so-called public opinion which is a fallacy and ludicrous. He thanked the ANC and his father for serving the people of South Africa in different capacities over the years and that it is a privilege that his family would not take for granted. “It was an honour that my father was deployed by the ANC to carry out the vision of Dr Pixley ka Isaka Seme, Inkosi, Dr John Langalibalele Dube, Inkosi Albert Luthuli and many other leaders who planted the seeds of resistance and took the first few steps towards our freedom, knowing fully well that they would not live to see its dawn. “The fact that the ANC survives today is a tribute to those decent and disciplined leaders who founded this movement and the men and women of impeccable integrity who led it during the years of colonisation and apartheid making it the oldest surviving liberation movement on our continent,” Edward said. He said following the resignation of former President Zuma, as his family, their message to the ANC leadership and membership, in general, is that everyone has a responsibility to preserve the legacy of the heroes and heroines who came before. Edward said as a family, they are aware of different voices that are suggesting that following the resignation President Zuma’s resignation, 2019 general elections should be boycotted by some ANC members and supporters who feel disgruntled by his recall. He said they have also noted comments that aggrieved ANC members must defect to other political parties and they are calling for maximum restraint on those who think so. “We believe that the ANC remains the home for all the people of this country. The party was created to unite all the people of South Africa and mobilise them all to struggle for the liberation of all those who were oppressed by apartheid – Blacks in general and Africans in particular – as well as to tirelessly work to ensure a better life for all the people of this country.