THERE were mixed reactions in KwaZulu-Natal to the ANC national executive committee’s decision to recall President Jacob Zuma from office. The ANC Youth League in the province said while it accepted the decision, it believed that the matter should have been handled with greater sensitivity as it sets a precedent whereby future presidents may not be allowed to finish their terms. He said it was puzzling that Paul Mashatile and Ace Magashule were allowed to finish their terms as provincial chairs but Zuma was not given the same opportunity. “We also feel that there are voices that were not heard by the party before it took the decision. The only voices that were heard were those who have access to the media. Those unheard voices will speak at the ballot and it will affect us,” Kwazi Mshengu said. He said the party would face questions from voters regarding the recall when the ANC goes campaigning during elections. The coordinator of the ANC’s interim structure in the province, Sihle Zikalala, whose faction in KZN had supported Zuma before the December 2017 elective conference, refused to comment and referred queries to the secretarygeneral, Magashule. The National Freedom Party (NFP) welcomed the sacking of Zuma saying it was long overdue. The party’s spokesperson, Sabelo Sigudu, said the party was now concerned about Zuma delaying the process of leaving office. “The ANC must tell him to go now and allow Cyril Ramaphosa to run the country.” The IFP echoed the NFP, saying the recall would take the country and its citizens forward. The party’s MP, Narend Singh, said even the markets reacted positively to the election of a new ANC leadership in December. “A new president will make sure the country’s 55 million citizens get services, corruption free,” he said. Meanwhile, the ANC in North West said it anticipated a positive outcome from ongoing meetings to resolve the leadership issue in the government. ANC deputy provincial secretary Susanna Dantjie said: “We are confident of the ability of both presidents Zuma and Ramaphosa to manage the transition well. “They are both equal to the task of resolving the challenges the ANC and the country are facing that are related to the transition,” she said. Dantjie was confident the leadership crisis in the ANC would be resolved amicably. “We hope that all of us can now give space for our leaders to provide leadership,” she said. -SIHLE MAVUSO AND ELFAS TORERAI|news@thenewage.co.za