PRESIDENT Jacob Zuma’s grip on power took several twists and turns yesterday with not only the postponement of the State of the Nation address (Sona) which was originally scheduled for tomorrow but also the postponement of the special NEC meeting scheduled for later today. The postponement capped a day of high drama including the shelving of Thursday’s Sona and a statement by the SA Communist Party alleging that Zuma was planning to fire his deputy. Sources in the ANC told The New Age that the postponement of the special NEC was a result of an agreement hammered out between Zuma and Ramaphosa that will see the president of republic voluntarily quitting his post sometime next week rather than him being recalled. The sources also said this agreement will “assist in containing an acrimonious battle at the NEC.” ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule confirmed that the presidents met in Cape Town last night. According to the ANC, the postponement of the special NEC until later this month happened after what has been described as “fruitful and constructive discussions” between Zuma and his deputy. Earlier yesterday the postponement of the SONA heightened speculation that Zuma was on the brink of being recalled if he does not offer to resign as head of state. Following the election of Cyril Ramaphosa as ANC president in December, the party has been gripped with an intense tussle between the two centres of power. The postponement of the Sona, an unprecedented move in the democratic dispensation, was announced by National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete and National Council of Provinces chairperson Thandi Modise yesterday. The presidency said yesterday the postponement was requested by President Zuma. “The President has requested the postponement due to certain developments which make it not conducive to successfully hold the sitting and deliver the Sona. The presiding officers have acceded to the President’s request,” the presidency said. Mbete said the presiding officers “have been dismayed in the past four years at the disrupting anarchy and chaos that have been characteristic of this annual joint sitting which in some way marks the opening of Parliament”. “With this in mind we’ve decided to approach the President of the Republic to propose that we postpone the joint sitting,” Mbete said. The ANC said the party “notes and respects” the decision of the President to postpone the Sona. “We understand that this decision was arrived at based on a shared understanding that there is a need to deliver this important address in a conducive political environment,” the party said in a statement. The DA said it welcomed the decision taken to postpone the Sona. “The ANC is in complete turmoil and being held to ransom by Jacob Zuma. At a price tag of over R11m in taxpayers money, Sona cannot be reduced to a public relations exercise,” the DA said. ANC deputy secretary-general Jessie Duarte said yesterday that questions around the political future of Zuma had been weighing heavily on the ANC’s ability to close ranks and that she hoped members could reach a decision through engagement and consensus rather than a vote. Duarte also said that whatever the outcome of the now postponed meeting was, the ANC would not treat its implications in a “light-hearted” fashion. “We have customs and cultures in the ANC. We’ve never voted on any matter. We’ve been able to persuade each other. I anticipate that’s what will probably happen. It’s unlikely that we will not find each other either way,” Duarte said yesterday. “I don’t know which way this will go and I don’t think we must try to speculate for the ANC how this will discussion will go. Whichever way it goes every member of the ANC will be compelled to accept it.” Regarding the impact of the decision on Zuma’s future will have on the country and the ANC, Duarte said: “Have we considered implications? Yes we have. All the implications, whether these implications impact on the support base of any member in the ANC, or the support base of the ANC itself, the impact will be on our ability to guide and steer the country’s future.” It was for this reason Duarte said that the ANC’s lack of consensus on Zuma’s fate had roused the anxiety of ANC members. “The inability of the NEC to have a decision has already had an impact on members on the ground, creating confusion, indecision and is creating what we saw on the streets of Johannesburg yesterday (Monday), which we don’t accept,” Duarte said. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN AND BONOLO SELEBANO news@thenewage.co.za