SMALLHOLDER farmers in North West have expressed hope that the newly launched Agrifund will support their efforts to be established and turn commercial. Premier Supra Mahumapelo and rural, environmental and agricultural development department MEC Manketsi Tlhape recently launched the North West in Mahikeng. Speaking for the African Farmers Association of South Africa, Wisdom Matshekga said the fund was a huge relief to young farmers. “We welcome the Agrifund, it’s a vehicle that will help most of us as upcoming farmers through production and mechanisation support,” he said. Matshekga said the fund should break the boundaries set by established banks and reach out to farmers in far flung areas. “It is desirable for the fund to go deep into the rural areas where most of the start ups who need help are. Commercial banks sometimes sideline us and even on the interest rate charged. We ask that it should be 4% per annum for start ups and 5% for those in throughput production,” Matshekga said. He said there were about 400 young farmers in the province who need to be supported to produce and even process their products. Professor Marekwa Wilfred Legotlo said farmers welcome the government’s initiative in establishing the fund. “I want to thank Premier Supra Mahumapelo for his vision which I believe will go a long way in assisting our farming community. As farmers, we believe this will make a huge difference. We want to pledge our support to this vision and we trust it will assist our programme of commercialising farms,” he said. At the launch, hundreds of farmers converged in Mahikeng to witness this historic development. The fund seeks to close the gap for farmers who do not qualify for grants or cannot access funding from the commercial banks with a particular emphasis on previously disadvantaged individuals, aspiring farmers and those involved in small scale agricultural activities. Part of its mandate is to contribute to rural development and stability, social upliftment and job creation. It is structured in a way that allows partnerships with other entities to expand its envelope in financing agriculture and supporting farmers like commercial banks, local, regional and international development finance institutions, cooperatives, the department of rural development and land reform (DRDLR), provincial departments and other institutions in the agricultural sector while ensuring the promotion and structuring of related enterprises in the province. Premier Mahumapelo said he was glad the vision he had, has become a reality. “Today we are here to deliver on a collective resolution to implement Agrifund. With NWAF at the centre of the province’s agricultural sector transformation, I am confident it will bring real and lasting progress to the lives of ordinary citizens and boost the economy of the province particularly of villages, townships and small dorpies (VTSD). NWAF will serve as one of the most efficient vehicles for the economic development of the province,” he said. “While we have made significant strides in economic growth and in poverty reduction, much remains to be done. The goal is clear, it is to eradicate poverty, create more inclusive socio-economic development. To do so, the province needs to promote growth that creates jobs and provides economic  opportunities for all,” Mahumapelo said. MEC Tlhape thanked the team that worked hard to make the Agrifund a reality and assured communities that service from the fund will be of a good quality as most of the people employed to work for the Agrifund come with a wealth of experience from banking. “I’m proud to say the technical team managed to recruit and appoint competent officials with enormous banking experience for them to hit the ground running hence the fund is operational as we launch. Manager and business development officers have valuable experience as they worked for almost all the commercial banks of South Africa,” she said. The North West has a well-developed commercial agricultural sector with about 7 600 commercial farms. About 147000 relatively small farms are active in the area for the purpose of subsistence farming, with day-to-day needs and demands as the main objective behind the activity. At present, production levels of the subsistence farming sector is only 16% of the average production potential. Tlhape said this is a clear indication of the possible growth that could be achieved in the agricultural sector but is hindered by factors such as limited access to resources like funds, markets, technical skills and business support. Those in farming are encouraged to apply for financial aid from the Agrifund. Application forms will be made available in due course in all development department district and local area offices or farmers are encouraged to visit the Agrifund offices at the Agricentre building in Mahikeng. elfast@thenewage.co.za -ELFAS TORERAI