The National Student Financial Aid Scheme (NSFAS) has paid R1.5 Billion to all universities in their quest to realise free quality education for 2018 students. This is in line with the announcement made by President Jacob Zuma on the 16 of December last year, which stated that government will provide free higher education to the poor and qualifying students. However, the government said the programme will be implemented in phases until its able to provide it to every student. NSFAS spokesperson Kagisho Mamabolo said the amount will cover student registration fees, books, and other essential allowances to universities. “Each institution will get about 13% of provisional payment for 2018.” NSFAS Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Steven Zwane said the agreement they have between universities, was that they exchange data to confirm all first-time entrants who have received firm academic offers, applied for NSFAS and qualify financially. “Universities were requested to register all NSFAS qualifying students in terms of this agreement. The upfront payments are NSFAS’s commitment to ensuring that government policy on free education is implemented without any delays for qualifying students. “No student qualifying for NSFAS with a firm offer from the institution should be expected to pay any fees upfront in order to be registered for the 2018 academic year,” Zwane said. NSFAS and universities have put a process in place to ensure that students with firm offers from universities who did not apply for funding but fall within the R350 000 threshold must identify themselves to the university in order to be assisted with funding. At the same time, upon arrival students are expected to provide verification documents, such as Parents or legal guardians’ IDs, Copies of parents’ salary slips and a signed consent form to allow NSFAS to verify household income. “Students will also be required to sign an acknowledgment of debt form issued by their university whilst NSFAS is assessing their documentation and eligibility in terms of the above criteria. “This will enable them to register. Students will remain liable to pay their fees if they are subsequently found not to be financially eligible,” Mamabolo said. He also said that the R350 000 per annum threshold only applied to first time university entrants, adding that returning students who applied to NSFAS by 30 November last year, for the first time their application will be processed and considered. -TNA Reporter 