Higher Education and Training Deputy Minister Buti Manamela described as “barbaric” the racially motivated assault of long-distance runner Thabang Mosiako. Manamela said this during a press briefing after visiting the North West University (NWU) in Potchefstroom on Wednesday. Mosiako was left injured and had to suspend his preparations for the continental athletics tournament in Algeria after he was attacked by a group said to be NWU students. The deputy minister said it was inconceivable that there were people who still resorted to violence as a way of showing authority. “I met the victims of the attack, the university management and student leadership at the campus. We are collectively angered by the assault incident mainly because some among us still think violence is the way to go. “It is abhorrent that some people believe other human beings are inferior because of the colour of their skin and I’m particularly appalled by the behaviour of police involved in the whole matter,” he said. There are allegations that security and police officers looked the other way while the assault happened. The Independent Police Investigations Directorate (Ipid) is said to be investigating the incident. Manamela said he would also take the matter up with the police minister to make sure everything was done to bring the perpetrators of the violence to book. “We have to show everyone that racially motivated violence belongs in the past,” he said. Police in North West indicated that no arrests had been made but a task team had been set to probe the matter. Manamela said that a lesson has to be sent out to the community that racists should be exposed. NWU vice-chancellor Prof Dan Kgwadi said racism remains a problem not only at the university but in society at large. “We cannot say there are no racists at this university because like any other institution, we are a microcosm of what is happening in society. “So if there are racists out there, we are also likely to have racists on campus. One critical thing is that we ought to realise that one cannot be racist outside campus and a completely different individual once on campus,” he said. As part of the visit, Manamela also received a briefing from Kgwadi, university management and student leadership on registrations, campus security and matters related to racism. The issue of language as a medium of instruction was highlighted as it relates to exclusion and inequality. The university said it is functionally multilingual and outlined the interpretation services that it has instituted. A representative of the South African Human Rights Commission offered to work with the university on human rights education. elfast@thenewage.co.za