FOUR bogus doctors were arrested in Mahikeng after they were found offering abortion services yet they could not produce proof that they were trained in the field. The four were held during a crackdown carried out by police as part of Operation Fiela II that started on Friday and ran until yesterday. For a long time, Mahikeng residents have complained their town had been taken over by people promising painfree abortions among other so-called services advertised in graffiti and on posters pasted on every street pole and other structures, including buildings around town. Through the crackdown, police said the aim was to reassert the authority of the state back in society. Community safety and transport management MEC Mpho Motlhabane launched Operation Fiela II on February 2 in Klerksdorp. North West police spokesperson LitCol Adéle Myburgh said: “The operation is aimed at addressing maintaining law, order, peace, security and stability and to reclaim the space or areas controlled by criminals and to create a conducive environment for all people in South Africa to participate in social and economic activities.” She further said various counterfeit goods were confiscated during the numerous raids conducted. “A total of 204 suspects were arrested for various crimes ranging from liquor related offences to serious crimes like murder and robbery. Included in these arrests are 45 undocumented persons,” she said. Myburgh further said that at a roadblock between Mahikeng and Bray, a suspicious truck was stopped and searched, leading to the arrest of nine illegal immigrants. “The nine men were found hiding in the back and in the Mahikeng CBD another 14 illegal immigrants were also arrested. “They were all detained and processed,” she said. The operation also led to the confiscation of various drugs, 22 cellphones, electrical equipment, four cattle, copper pipes, 11 vehicles, a toy gun, perishables and fuel. Myburgh said the operation was conducted through a multidisciplinary approach by various joint law enforcement role players including provincial and local government structures. Operation Fiela II will continue until the end of July and will be carried out throughout the province. Police commissioner Lit-Gen Baile Motswenyane said the operation would continue in other parts in the province in order to stamp the authority of the state in the community and to ensure that members of the public are and feel safe. elfast@thenewage.co.za -ELFAS TORERAI