PERHAPS it is too early to talk about Bidvest Wits’ current season as being a disaster, given that the league champions are now out of PSL contention – but their image would change dramatically if Gavin Hunt’s men now go on to win the Nedbank Cup. Having the Telkom Knockout already in the bag – a second trophy would certainly turn their season right around. Of course, the biggest victory for Wits would have been to defend their PSL title, but as they gear up to face Cape Town City in the Nedbank Cup round of 32, the Students are confident they can save their season. But an easy win is far from being on the cards as Wits have already fallen to City three times this season. For Wits midfielder Thabang Monare, the match and the cup holds much more significance for the Clever Boys than just being a revenge encounter. “We are far more mature than that. Our goal is not based on our past, but what we want to create as a club. We are aware of our record against City but the driving force for us is to end up with another cup and go as far up as we can on the log,” Monare said. “Look, this is clearly not how we wanted our season to go. “We wanted to defend our title and then win another cup just like we did last season. “But things were tough in the league. However, we have the Telkom Knockout title and now this Nedbank Cup is something we really want. “Getting a second cup will also be a big thing for our players ahead of next season,” the Wits midfielder said. In the last league meeting between the two teams, Wits lost 1-0, with Lehlohonolo Majoro the hero for City. The striker, who is now with Wits, again scored the winner for City when they dumped Wits out of the MTN8 in the semifinal. Now that Majoro is a Clever Boy, Monare must believe Wits can defeat City. “The attention will always be on Majoro because he made our life very difficult when he was still at City. “For him to score in two of the three matches shows his quality but this time he is on our side. He should do to City what he used to do to us,” Monare said. “But we know that even though he gets us opportunities and goals, we will also have to put in a good shift as a team. “There is a lot at stake here and the team will have to pull together,” the midfielder said. • The match at Bidvest Wits Stadium starts at 7.30pm tonight. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za