MUSA Nyatama has been one of the more consistent players at Orlando Pirates this season, enjoying his football despite partnering with several different players in the central midfield. Nyatama, who joined the club from Bloemfontein Celtic in August, has played alongside Thamsanqa Sangweni, Issa Sarr, Abbubaker Mobara, Mpho Makola and Marshall Munetsi. He says he doesn’t mind playing with anyone who is picked as he believes any player at Pirates is capable of doing the job that is required. “Whoever I’m playing with, I will always try to encourage them and also try to play my best game consistently,” Nyatama said. “We’ve got depth so whoever comes in makes it a point that they do their very best.” In his 21 appearances in the Absa Premiership and in the Telkom Knockout, Nyatama has achieved two goals and two assists. He has been one of the best performers for Pirates with three man of the match awards already. His role has been to help out in defence rather than the usual attacking one he played at his previous clubs and has adjusted well. Nyatama has received strong praise from coach Milutin Sredojevic who feels he has adjusted well to the philosophy at the club. “I believe that Nyatama is a classic reflection of the model we are striving for and representative of that model because from the very beginning of the season he has been the most consistent player in the side,” Sredojevic said. “I must also give praise to the technical team for the amount of work they have done. The players believe in us and we believe in them.” Nyatama said: “I feel honoured to be playing the modern style of game here at Orlando Pirates and I need to give 100% every time I’m given a chance and so far I’m happy with my performances.” He will be looking to put in another good display when his outfit meets Ajax Cape Town in the Nedbank Cup last 32 at Orlando Stadium on Saturday, following on from his impressive performance when Pirates edged out Maritzburg United 2-1 at the same venue in the league match at the weekend. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|nevillek@thenewage.co.za