THE Proteas will have an opportunity to keep the T20I series alive when they meet India in the second game at SuperSport Park in Centurion tonight. Down 1-0 already, they need to stop India from winning by all means if they are to stay in the series and a defeat will mean the tourists will clinch the title with one to spare. India have been a completely different outfit in the short-format of the game having clinched their first-ever ODI series win in South Africa. beating the hosts 5-1. They are already 1-0 up and will be looking to clinch the series tonight and continue to dominate the Proteas. For the Proteas to have a chance against an in form India, their batsmen with the likes of skipper JP Duminy, David Miller and Chris Morris needing to pitch up and perform. The batsmen have been awful since the ODI series and if the Proteas are to have a chance, they will need to step up to help the team. Opener Reeza Hendricks, who scored 70 off just 50 deliveries in the first match was the only batsman who perform with the bat and a lot will be expected from him again tomorrow. He will need assistance from the other top batsmen if the Proteas are to have a chance. “I’m grateful for the opportunity, I had to just go out there to express myself and try to contribute as much as I can for the team,” Hendricks said. “But it was a bitter-sweet day because we didn’t win. But this is a massive confidence definitely. “I don’t think I worked on anything much different from what I have been doing. I tried keeping as much as possible. “Knowing my game plan and my strength, I just used that and fortunately it worked in the first game.” Still without AB de Villiers, Faf du Plessis and Quinton de Kock due to injuries, some of the key players have been rested for the Test series against Australia next month, so the Proteas will have to do with what they have now. They will hope the batsmen are up for the challenge against an in form India side who will be eyeing a series victory and possible whitewash. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@thenewage.co.za