AS MUCH as he would like to feature in all Mamelodi Sundowns matches, captain Hlompho Kekana has lauded the way in which the club’s doctors and trainers have managed his workload. Having been a mainstay for Sundowns in the past few seasons, when he was fortunate to stay injury free for longer periods, Kekana has been playing more than most of the players at the club. But in recent times, Sundowns have been carefully managing the midfielder’s workload, with Tiyani Mabunda and Oupa Manyisa taking the baton. Kekana was an unused sub in two matches that Sundowns won against Platinum Stars and Cape Town City, but started the game against Kaizer Chiefs, which Pitso Mosimane’s side drew. The midfielder also missed Sundowns’ clash with Cape Town All Stars in the Nedbank Cup on Friday, but he is not worried that his place in the team could be slowly slipping away. The 32 year old said with the CAF Champions League approaching and the last few league matches coming up, managing his workload is the best thing the club could have done. “You obviously always want to be on the pitch when you play for this club because you want to help the team do well. But I have to be understanding. “I am not 21 years any more. I have played a lot of matches last year and in the year that we won the Champions League. I have travelled a lot,” Kekana said. “It does not always have to be like that because I am not young any more. I appreciate the way my workload is being managed. It keeps us as players fresh so that when I come back, I give my best for the team and the supporters. “It is not even a big issue because we have guys like Oupa and Tiyani who always do well when I am not there. I am just happy that the team is winning.” The midfielder is likely to make the starting line-up when Sundowns take on PSL dark horses Free State Stars this weekend. Stars are third on the table with 32 points from 20 games, trailing Mosimane’s team by six points. The match will be at Loftus Versfeld Stadium. Percy Tau was the star of the show when the two teams last met this season, scoring an electrifying brace. Tau also scored a brace when Sundowns thrashed Stars 4-1 back in December 2016. -MMASEKEPE MATSEBANE|mmasekepem@thenewage.co.za