EFF leader Julius Malema’s calls for people to occupy vacant land could place him in hot water as the deputy speaker of the National Assembly‚ Lechesa Tsenoli yesterday said he would refer the matter directly to the Speaker. Malema again made a call for people to proceed to occupy unoccupied land without permission Speaking after President Cyril Ramaphosa tabled the Presidential budget statement at the National Assembly on Wednesday. Malema blamed President Ramaphosa of stalling and ‘bluffing’ when it comes to the implementation of land expropriation. “Since you’re no longer clear, we have made a call and we are making it even here, for our people to occupy the unoccupied land, it is their land because the ANC is not going to give them land anytime soon,” Malema said. “When he says what he says there, I think it raises very crucial questions,’ responded deputy speaker Tsenoli. Members of the EFF later exited parliament chanting ‘occupy land’. Last year in March, the Pretoria High Court granted an interdict barring Malema from inciting illegal land grabs after being approached by Afrikaner Civil rights groups AfriForum and AfriBusiness. Back in 2016 while addressing EFF supporters outside the Newcastle Magistrate’s Court, Malema said that all land in South Africa belonged to black people and should be taken from whites without compensation. In 2014, AfriForum also lodged a complaint against Malema after he called on his supporters to occupy any piece of land that was not being utilised during his party’s elective conference in Bloemfontein. Meanwhile, Malema has also called for the President to reduce the size of his cabinet. “Mr. President, you said you were going to reduce the departments and anybody else was excited and nothing has happened,” he said. Malema said that despite the President’s promise to reduce his number of ministers, the cabinet was still big. “Reduce the cabinet, save us money and redirect that money to the needy department and if you do so by removing some of your colleagues that will be a show of character,” he said. -Afro Voice Reporter