WESTERN Cape judge president John Hlophe has agreed that all court matters between Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille and the DA should be consolidated in one matter that is likely to be heard next month. De Lille said in a statement released yesterday that Hlophe would allocate a judge to hear the matter. She had challenged the findings of the Steenhuisen report “which found me guilty on untested allegations and smeared my name”. The matter (No 797/18) was scheduled to be heard in the Cape Town High Court yesterday. “Again I have been informed by my legal team that the matter has been postponed due to the DA’s refusal to provide the documentary and other evidence which informed the Steenhuisen report in which findings were made against me.” De Lille said she had demanded that the DA provided documents needed for the case to proceed. The first of these documents was a letter from councillor JP Smith which had “started this entire witch-hunt against me”. The letter was addressed to the DA’s Mmusi Maimane (party leader) and James Selfe and at the same time, “by Smith’s own admission”, also given to other federal executive members including Denise Robinson, John Steenhuisen, Refiloe Ntsekhe and Thomas Walters. “This letter was then leaked to the media in August 2017,” De Lille said. She said she had requested the DA leadership for this letter since September 2017 “because it is very clearly the genesis of the smear campaign that they have subjected me to”. “The DA has refused every single request I have made in this regard.” De Lille said she also requested a copy from Maimane via SMS. “He agreed to send me a copy but I never received it. “I requested the letter from Steenhuisen and my request was met with a legal response to say that the letter is confidential. “I can only come to the conclusion that all of these federal leaders mentioned are protecting JP Smith at all costs and that they agree and support all the untested allegations in the JP letter.” Without the full record of evidence and a proper investigation, she said, the Steenhuisen report could only amount to “a collection of feelings and baseless anecdotes”. “I have now been forced into the position of having to launch yet another separate court application in order to get the documents which the DA has been using to smear my name. “This is a party which supposedly believes in the rule of law. “All of these tactics begs the question as to what the DA is hiding and how sure they are of their case against me.” On Mayday, she said, her legal team received a ruling from the chairperson of one of her disciplinary hearings, Hans-Jurie Moolman, in which he “denied the application” by Media24 and her lawyers to open her disciplinary hearing to the media. news@aftrotone.co.za