DEPUTY President David Mabuza will have to explain the reasons for the government’s intervention in the North West province in the National Assembly tomorrow. During his appearance Mabuza will also be quizzed about the South African National Aids Council. Mabuza’s question and answer session will be one of the highlights of the week in the National Assembly. Another highlight will also occur tomorrow when International Relations and Cooperation Minister Lindiwe Sisulu delivers a statement in the National Assembly on the killing of Palestinian civilians and the withdrawal of SA’s ambassador to Israel. With mounting speculation of early elections, tomorrow’s appearance by the Independent Electoral Commission before the Home Affairs portfolio committee to talk about its preparedness for the 2019 national elections takes on a greater meaning. Every ministry has bemoaned the dire effect of budget cuts while presenting budget votes in Parliament this month. Tomorrow the national Treasury will also brief Parliament about the rationality of these reductions as well as their impact on service delivery. The Department of Planning, Monitoring and Evaluation will inform the portfolio committee whether government policy and mandates are adequately catered for in the budget and whether a new approach in allocation is feasible. The Public Service Commission will bring the portfolio committee up to date about its work in promoting constitutional values and principles in public service. Justice and Correctional Services Minister Michael Masutha will on Wednesday bring the select committee on security and justice up to speed in relation to policy of the department and its entities. Among other items on the portfolio committee agenda scheduled for Wednesday is a presentation by the Department of Social Development about its third quarterly financial and performance reports for the 2017-18 financial year. Another presentation due to be made on Wednesday is a briefing by the IEC on initiatives to implement gender quotas in the upcoming elections. Also on Wednesday the National Student Financial Aid Scheme and the Department of Higher Education and Training will brief the higher education and training committee about progress made in the payment of outstanding allowances to students. Outside the precincts of Parliament, Masutha will host a round table discussion on a new parole framework for South Africa at the Century City Conference Centre tomorrow. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN|news@afrotone.co.za