The Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (OUTA) says that a budget of the Department of Water and Sanitation shows that Government plans to spend about R88 500 to replace a single bucket toilet for the 2018/2019 financial year. “The 2018/19 budget indicates that the department plans to spend about R88 500 to replace each bucket toilet this year: it budgets R1 048.2 million (that’s R1. 048 billion) for the BEP with a target of just 11 844 bucket systems to be replaced,” Outa said in a statement. The targeted amount was extracted by the organisation from the department’s budget on a part of its expenditure on infrastructure. Outa’s portfolio manager for water and environment Yamkela Ntola says that this alleged ‘overspending’ on the Bucket Eradication Programme captured the essence of the Water and Sanitation’s financial mismanagement. “Which will be placed under a microscope in the forthcoming parliamentary inquiry.” Outa says that the department has failed to meet the national target for a complete eradication of the buckets system since it has been run under Water and Sanitation in 2014. The organisation blames government’s lack of commitment to eradicating the bucket system. “In 2016, Nomvula Mokonyane, the then Minister of Water and Sanitation, correctly stated that the bucket toilet system is “the most degrading legacy of apartheid”. “But under her leadership, there has been no commitment to the eradication of bucket toilets, only a waste of public funds,” said Outa. Department of Water and Sanitation (DWS) has dismissed Outa’s allegations and said it was concerned by the NGO’s peddling of a misconception. DWS spokesperson Sputnik Ratau said the lobby group’s allegations were incorrect and sensational, with the ultimate outcome of misleading the public and cast aspersions on government spending and priorities. “The budget allocation against the audited and completed number of toilets as reflected by OUTA is by no means correct or an accurate reflection of the cost of the toilet. “On average, the provision of a dry sanitation solution in areas without adequate infrastructure to enable the flushing of the toilet can cost up to R11 500 per toilet and R15 000 for waterborne toilet excluding new water, sewer reticulation as well as bulk services in the affected area,” Ratau said. He said waterborne sanitation required a number of aspects to enable the flushing of a toilet which included site preparation and establishment, digging and installing services such as reticulation and providing the top structures and yard connections. “Generally, 70% of the project cost will go towards the reticulation (work underground) whilst the balance entails site establishment costs, new toilet structures and furniture, project management and design fees.” -Afro Voice Reporter