THE past few days proved to be a puzzling paradox for Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane. No sooner had the Sundowns head honcho been lauded for guiding the Brazilians to a historic PSL title, was Mosimane faced with a brand new dilemma to untangle. Fresh from winning their eighth PSL title at the weekend, Mosimane is now not sure whether he should send his whole team to Bloemfontein for the trophy celebrations after their match against Celtic, or if he should send part of the team to Togo for their CAF Champions League group stages match against Horoya. Sundowns will lift the trophy against Celtic at Dr Molemela Stadium on May 12, but three days later face Horoya. While he wants all his players to be there when they lift the title, Mosimane said he may have to make a sacrifice and send other players to Togo before watching their teammates celebrate. “How are you going to deal with that, you see how difficult it is. It is a thorn in the flesh because you are playing on Saturday in Bloemfontein and how do you come out from that place after the match? Which flight?” Mosimane said. “And you need at least 48 hours before the match and when you land in Togo, you do so at night and you play the same day. “I will have to make sure that I look after Mamelodi Sundowns’ Champions League space because we work hard for that.” Sundowns begin the group stage of the Champions League against defending champions Wydad Casablanca, a team which knocked them out in the quarterfinals last year. From there they will meet Celtic on May 12 where they will be crowned the PSL champions before heading to Togo for their second of the group stages. “Somehow, you got to be a little bit selfish in what you do probably give other guys a chance and take the other team to Togo earlier on Friday but it is not nice that when you raise a trophy and they are not there. “But it is the way it is because it is two seasons of Champions League are overlapping in one season. We will see.” Mosimane also doesn’t want to end the season against Celtic with a defeat and that he doesn’t want teams to feel like he is doing others favours. “There are other teams fighting for the top eight and all that. People will say why put in a second team now. “I’m not sure what will happen because you have to understand we have Wydad and after that Celtic game, we are in Togo on Tuesday.” nevillek@afrotone.co.za -NEVILLE KHOZA