THE disgruntled members of the ANC have vowed to halt the provincial conference in Welkom at the weekend, even if it means going to court. This after a planned national working committee (NWC) visit to Mangaung to assess readiness ahead of the provincial elective conference did not happen. Afro Voice, however, understands that NWC visited other regions. Monnapule Ntamo, one of the disgruntled members, said the NWC not showing up was expected. “There is no way the conference can go on because all the audits are not complete and the branch general meetings (BGMs) have not been conducted accordingly, so there is no way that the conference can go on. “The NWC was meant to be here at the weekend but they did not show up, so how can we speak about the conference whereas there many are problems, most importantly the audit and the BGMs.” Ntamo said only five branches had been audited, the rest were still to be audited. The disgruntled members said they delivered the memorandum to the provincial task team yesterday outlining the points which would prevent the conference from going ahead. Meanwhile, the ANC in the region said it was disappointed at the turn of events at Phillip Sanders where a scuffle, instigated allegedly by the disgruntled members, occurred on Sunday. Lulama Titi-Odili, ANC acting Mangaung regional secretary, said while the meeting of branches was in session, the leadership of the region learned about a group of people who forcefully attempted to enter the meeting venue even though they were not invited. “As the leadership of the region we are not aware who the group represents and what their concern was as none of their issues were raised to the leadership of the ANC by any individuals who were part of the group outside the ANC meeting,” he said. He said the leadership of the region was opened for discussion with any organised or disorganised group in the society on any issue which affected them individually or collectively. -MICHAEL TLHAKUDI|michaelt@afrotone.co.za