INVESTIGATORS who successfully overturned a ruling which cleared the apartheid security police implicated in the death of anti-apartheid activist Ahmed Timol have now set their sights on eight more cases involving brutality by apartheid-era police. The investigators were motivated by their feat in getting a guilty verdict in a second inquest held last year into Timol’s death in police custody 46 years ago and had set out to take on those implicated in the suspended “suicides” in police custody of other anti-apartheid activists. Among the cases they had flagged, include Neil Aggett, Hoosen Haffajee and Babla Saloojee, the “accidental” death of Matthews Mabalane, the “natural” deaths of Nicodemus Kgoathe, Solomon Modipane and Jacob Monnakgotla and the disappearance and murder of Nokuthula Simelane. Simelane was abducted and tortured by members of the security branch in 1983 and disappeared. Several police officers applied to the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC) for amnesty in relation to her torture and kidnapping, but not for her murder. In February 2016 the National Prosecutions Authority (NPA) announced its intention to prosecute four former police officers for kidnapping and murder. The public has been urged to provide information that could help in the resolution of the cases. “Nobody applied for amnesty to the TRC in respect of their deaths. In its final report the TRC recommended these and other cases be investigated for purposes of prosecution, but nearly 20 years later scant progress has been made,” the director of the Foundation for Human Rights Yasmin Sooka said. “After many years of campaigning by the Timol family, the inquest into the death of Ahmed Timol was reopened last year and the inquest finding altered from one of suicide to murder at the hands of police.” Anyone with information on the Simelane and Aggett cases is asked to contact Moray Hathorn from law-firm Webber Wentzel, while information on the Mabelane, Saloojee, Haffejee, Kgoathe, Modipane and Monnakgotla matters may be submitted to Naseema Fakir from the Lawyers for Human Rights. Sooka, who is also a former TRC commissioner, lauded the media for its coverage of the Timol inquest. A key witness was discovered as a consequence of the coverage, she said. She urged former security police offices to break ranks with their apartheid masters, who can no longer afford them protection. Sooka also called on others who may have information, from members of other branches of the police to cleaners, health and auxiliary workers, to come forward so that justice may finally be done. Last year the NPA instructed the police to open three dockets in respect of the death of Timol in 1971. This was after the Pretoria high court found in a re-opened inquest that security police murdered Timol. Judge Billy Mothle overturned the 1972 ruling of apartheid magistrate JL de Villiers that Timol committed suicide. Mothle recommended that three former security police officers who gave evidence to the reopened inquest face perjury charges and in the case of former Sgt Jan Rodrigues‚ as an accessory after the fact of murder. -LILLIAN SELAPISA|lillians@thenewage.co.za