THE worsening financial state of the country’s municipalities by auditor-general (AG), Kimi Makwetu, has raised concern. Makwetu revealed that the overall audit outcomes of the 257 municipalities in the country had regressed. Municipalities leading the pack in incurring irregular expenditure were Free State followed by Nelson Mandela Bay Metro, OR Tambo and city of Tshwane. The city of Johannesburg is still owed the largest amount of R17.1bn followed by Ekurhuleni Metro at R13.3bn, city of Tshwane R9.5bn and Cape Town at R8.1bn. “The city of Tshwane reported the highest growth in outstanding debtors, followed by the city of Ekurhuleni at 24.6% and 14.4% respectively. Six metros have reported outstanding debtors of more than 30% of own revenue against five metros in the 2015-16 financial year. “The collection rate by metros averages 94.8% compared to a national collection of 90.8%,” the report said. On 30 June 2016, metropolitan municipalities recorded water and electricity losses amounting to R2.8bn and R7.2bn respectively. The report provides a regular overview of the state of municipal finances that can be used to identify areas of risk in local government finances so that appropriate responses can be developed. It also helps identify municipalities in financial distress and determines whether they require support or national intervention. The report said that of an “about R350bn total expenditure budget for 257 municipalities, 3.5% or R12.2bn of it was irregular expenditure mainly due to non-compliance with supply chain management regulations”. “In the majority, instances of noncompliance goods or services were received. However these were not necessarily the best value for money,” the report said. The Minister of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (Cogta), Dr Zweli Mkhize, who congratulated the 33 municipalities that received unqualified audit opinion with no findings in the period 2016-2017 was unhappy at the general regression of the audit outcomes. “Cogtanotes from the AG’s report that a total of 145 or 56% of municipal audit outcomes are classified as unqualified. This represents a solid base for national and provincial governments to introduce support programmes to improve financial management in
municipalities. “We are encouraged that with ongoing efforts to improve the municipal audit outcomes, there are municipalities that do get things right and become exemplary to others. This is especially encouraging when this AG’s audit report represents a period when two-thirds of councillors have just been elected into their new council positions following the 2016 municipal elections,” Mkhize said. He has embarked on provincial visits as part of Cogta consultative process to refine the nature and extent of the problems faced by the municipalities for long-term interventions. “Salga is concerned by the latest findings that show regressions in the quality of financial statements, quality of performance reporting, the financial health of municipalities and increases in unauthorised, irregular and fruitless or wasteful expenditure,” Salga spokesperson Sivuyile Mbambato said. The South African Municipal Workers Union also noted that the AG had picked up widespread debt collection failures in municipalities coupled with the debt to Eskom and Water Boards. ntombin@afrotone.co.za