VOWING publicly that the Special Investigating Unit (SIU) would conduct its investigations into McKinseys and Eskom without fear or favour, the unit’s head has disclosed it is probing allegations that a North West company delivered cattle to Nkandla. According to newspaper reports, recently retired premier Supra Mahumapelo instructed AgriDelight to deliver a herd of cattle worth R1.5m – and meant for the poor – to the Nkandla homestead of former president Jacob Zuma in October 2016. SIU head advocate Jan Mothibi told a Western Cape stakeholder engagement forum in Cape Town yesterday that the matter was receiving attention. “We have been to the North West recently. AgriDelight is also on the radar screen.” The SIU reports directly to the president and begins its work after the head of state has issued a proclamation. Among the current investigations were those into Eskom and McKinseys. “We would like to state it here and now that we will do our work without fear, favour or prejudice.” Last year the SIU recovered R4bn from contracts that were awarded unlawfully. “We are really proud we do to get to those results but we acknowledge that more can be done”. At the same conference, former public protector Thuli Madonsela, who has accepted a position to serve on the board of global corruption watchdog Transparency International, said South Africa was riding the crest of hope. “One of the reasons is that we’re seeing an end to impunity. “One of the things that were depressing people in the last few years was seeing that some … get away,” Madonsela said. Police officers had complained to her that they were subjected to disciplinary hearings for the smallest of things but that others were not held to account for billion of rands. “Right now we’re riding a crest of hope because we are seeing that accountability has dawned. It doesn’t matter how long the night can be, dawn always comes. “We’re seeing the dawn of accountability at the morning. But we haven’t seen the end of it yet. We subdued state capture. We didn’t end it. “We also overcame Bell Pottinger that sought to divide us and divert our attention from wrongdoing. But impunity is not gone.” Corruption thrived because of collusion. “What’s our answer to collusion? It should be collaboration.” At the same briefing Western Cape Premier Helen Zille said checks and balances to power were the essence of democracy. She said that holding power to account properly was the best way to prevent corruption. Giving her view of state capture, Zille said it involved a power elite in the ruling party capturing institutions of state that they used to protect an enrichment network. Zille said Zuma had said he was advancing BEE. “If and when he gets to court, it will be interesting.” -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN