IN A bid to prosecute the former first lady of Zimbabwe, Grace Mugabe, for allegedly assaulting Gabriella Engels, Afriforum will challenge the former minister of the department of international relations and cooperation’s decision to grant diplomatic immunity at the High Court in Pretoria on Thursday. AfriForum’s legal representative Willie Spies said the application was the first important step in a process to have Mugabe prosecuted for her reported assault of the Johannesburg model Engels, who she allegedly assaulted in August last year. This comes after Mugabe was said to have assaulted Engels with an extension cord at a Sandton hotel, when she was visiting Mugabe’s two sons. Engels suffered a deep wound on the forehead and bruises on her thighs from the attack. Mugabe has denied these allegations claiming Engels was “intoxicated and unhinged” and had attacked her with a knife. “It is common knowledge that Mugabe and her offspring maintained extravagant lifestyles and spent enormous amounts of money on accommodation, shopping and parties in, among other areas, Sandton and Johannesburg when she was still the first lady of Zimbabwe,” Spies said. “At the time, the South African government decided, in a very controversial manner, to silently grant diplomatic immunity to Mugabe, giving her the opportunity to return to Zimbabwe from South Africa and therefore evade prosecution in South Africa. “Because of her being granted diplomatic immunity, the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) could not further investigate the charges against Mugabe of assault with the intention to cause grievous bodily harm and AfriForum therefore launched a court
application to have the controversial grant set aside.” Spies said various applications would be heard simultaneously from other institutions. “Should AfriForum be successful in having this diplomatic immunity to Mugabe set aside, it will pave the way for the NPA to take steps to ultimately prosecute Mugabe,” Spies said. keitumetsim@afrotone.co.za