ON THE one hand, South Africans have had to face a hike in value added tax (VAT) from 14% to 15% but on the other hand, those in debt with financial service providers have had this offset by the recent repo rate cut. These are confusing economic times and cash-strapped South Africans are plagued by many questions. John Manyike, head of financial education at Old Mutual said it was confusing for many South Africans on what these changes mean for their pockets. “In the grand scheme of things, the VAT increase means that every time you go to the shops, fill up your car with petrol, or buy any product or service that is subject to VAT, you will be paying more than you did in March this year. “But it’s not all gloom and doom. While any increase in the cost of living is tough, there is light at the end of the tunnel in the form of the announcement by the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) of a cut in the repo rate by 25 basis points.” The repo rate is the interest rate at which the SARB lends money to commercial banks, including Nedbank, Absa, FNB, Standard Bank and Capitec. When the SARB lowers the repo rate by 25 basis points, it means the interest rate on your debt becomes cheaper by a quarter of a percent (0.25%), which is great news if you are credit active and have a home loan, car loan, overdraft, store card or credit card debt. The credit bureau monitor released in December last year, revealed that more than 25 million consumers around the country were credit active. Of these consumers, 49.9% held accounts which were current, 11.8% were 1-2 months in arrears, 21.7% were more than three months in arrears, 11.1% were in adverse listing and 5.5% were under judgments and administration orders. These, Manyike said, are scary statistics, as is the fact that more South Africans have loans than jobs, a report by The Economist, released in January, said. He advises consumers to borrow responsibly and reduce debt, buy groceries that are VAT exempt such as brown bread, dried mealies, dried beans, lentils, canned pilchards or sardines, rice, fresh fruit and vegetables, vegetable oil, milk, eggs and legumes and cut back on things you can do without. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@thenewage.co.za