Families of some troops stationed in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) have expressed their concern over the Ebola outbreak affecting the country. There are 844 South African soldiers deployed in the DRC under the UN in peacekeeping missions. The cousin of one of the soldiers based at Mavivi base in Beni, who did not want to be identified, said: “Some of the families of the troops have expressed fears for their family
members deployed as part of the UN peace forces in the DRC. We are very worried because Ebola has already claimed lives. We hope that precautions are being taken to protect our troops,” he said. However, the South African Defence Force (SANDF) has allayed fears that the SA troops could be in danger of contracting Ebola. Capt Jaco Theunissen of the SANDF said there was no need for concern as there were no troops in the areas affected by Ebola. “We are not taking any precautions because the areas we are in are not affected at all. Our troops are safe from the outbreak,” he said. Some of the soldiers who did not want to be named, due to military protocol, told Afro Voice that they were not worried because their commanders had briefed them on the outbreak and they knew they were safe. “The outbreak is in the south of the DRC and we are based in the north. We are very far from the affected areas and we are being briefed on developments,” one of the soldiers said. Congolese nationals who are living in South Africa are also fearful for their loved ones. This, as the virus has now spread from the rural Equateur province to the busy port city of Mbandaka on the Congo River. The World Health Organisation (WHO) has also warned
that the outbreak in the DRC puts 10 countries including Angola and Zambia which are members of the Southern African Development Community, at high risk for the virus. “We have massive fears for our families – we are not happy knowing that back home our people are being attacked by this kind of virus. I am very fearful of what is taking place
there and we hope the government can provide sustainable water because people are still drinking water that is not hygienic,” Johannesburger Claude Kabimbi, said. Meanwhile, the Department of Health confirmed it had alerted all its officials at the ports of entry, provinces and health facilities to enhance their preparedness “in order to prevent the
importation of Ebola and implement response measures in the event that a case is detected in the country”. “Yes, we continue with our routine screening services to ensure compliance with health requirements. All passengers continue to undergo screening, which includes temperature screening to ensure they don’t have a fever and those who display fever symptoms are
then referred to a port health clinic for further medical assessment. “Fortunately, no one has yet been referred or suspected of Ebola at our ports of entry,” the department’s acting spokesperson, Foster Mohale said. Having faced heavy criticism over its handling of the previous Ebola outbreak in West Africa in which 11000 people died, the WHO has moved swiftly in its handling of the latest outbreak. The health body has called on neighbouring countries to strengthen their preparedness and surveillance. However, it emphasised that there should be no international travel or trade restrictions. Ebola is a highly infectious and deadly virus, with an average case fatality of about 50%. So far the outbreak has claimed the lives of 26 people. Figures released by the DRC government indicate that of the 49 cases reported, 22 were confirmed from April 4 to May 21. -DIKELEDI MOLOBELA AND LERATO DIALE