North West Premier Supra Mahumapelo believes that a plot hatched opposition parties to have him removed from office is finding expression within his own organisation the African National Congress. Mahumapelo who faces increased pressure to step down from his position on Wednesday said that current developments were planned by and concocted by his political detractors in collaboration with opposition parties particularly the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). ” The opposition combined is ten seats. Why should there be a panic that any of us can be removed from the legislature? So something is not right in the ANC,” ” We will have to discuss whether there aren’t any underground political relations between some members of the legislature who are ANC and the EFF,” he said on Wednesday. “I am not going to keep quiet when that time comes, if I don’t give my own understanding about this political imaginations, I would be very dishonest with the African National Congress, ” he added. The North West African National Congress (ANC) chairperson and premier who is speculated will officially announce his resignation said that the Provincial Executive committeee (PEC) had asked him to wait for the outcome of meeting expected to take place in the morning (Wednesday). He said that his fate would be decided by the PEC. In the past month, the province’s capital Mahikeng and surrounding areas saw violent protests with residents accusing Mahumapelo of corruption and calling for him to vacate his position as premier. Early last month, the EFF in the province had scheduled to table a motion of no confidence against Mahumapelo, but the party wrote to speaker asking for postpone pending the court case which would have forced the speaker to allow for a motion to be conducted by a secret ballot. Meanwhile, South African National Civic Organisation (Sanco) Chairperson Paul Sebegoe says while they have not endorsed any candidate to replace Mahumapelo, they are confident the ANC in the province, will appoint a leader that is well equipped to accelerate development. -Afro Worldview Reporter