As a meeting of the ANC top six deliberated yesterday on the political future of embattled , his allies have reiterated that if asked to step down from the government, Mahumapelo would not resist. President Cyril Ramaphosa led yesterday’s meeting at the party’s headquarters in Johannesburg while the interministerial committee set up to investigate the governance challenges in the province received a full governance report from Mahumapelo. Afro Voice has learnt that Mahumapelo was present during the committee’s meeting with his MECs and that Mahumapelo was cooperative. Sources said that while Mahumapelo wanted to stay on as the ANC provincial chairperson, should the ruling party formally ask him to step down as premier, he would abide by the call. “If at any stage the ANC approaches him to step down, he will not resist. There’s no way that as a deployee in the government, he can fail to cooperate,” the source said. Chairperson of the National Council of Provinces Thandi Modise is touted to replace Mahumapelo as premier. The party’s national working committee resolved last Wednesday that Mahumapelo should be recalled. A special ANC national executive committee meeting could be called to put in place formal proceedings for Mahumapelo’s recall as premier. Meanwhile, Minister in the Presidency Dr. Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma, who was part of the team tasked by Ramaphosa to meet with the provincial executive yesterday, said they would give a report on their findings to Ramaphosa. “We were asked to come here (North West) by the Cabinet and the president, so they should be the first ones to get a report from us before we speak to you about our findings,” Dlamini Zuma said. “We have spent a week here with both the technical team and the interministerial team. Last week we were seeing more of the government structures. Today (Monday) we will continue with the government structures but we also see its stakeholders. “After that, we will do a preliminary report to the Cabinet and to the president on Wednesday (tomorrow).” The interministerial committee denied Mahumapelo was uncooperative. “The intervention that we have made is not intended to sow any divisions. It is an intervention that is intended to assist the province as mandated by the Cabinet. The committee is working hard to ensure that it reports back to the Cabinet within the stipulated timelines,” interministerial committee spokesperson Phumla Williams said. Meanwhile, the Hawks in the North West yesterday said investigations were under way into an alleged plot to have Mahumapelo assassinated. This came after Mahumapelo opened a case at a Mahikeng police station claiming that a R250 000 bounty had been placed on his head. -Bonolo Selebano