The Gauteng Transport Department has ordered for the immediate closure of the Tsakane taxi rank in the East Rand following the fatal shooting of four people on Wednesday during a taxi-related dispute. “For now the situation is calm, we have deployed over a 120 law enforcement officers at the Tsakane taxi rank. We have shut down the rank in the interest of public safety. We can’t risk a situation wherein commuters might get killed in the crossfire,” Gauteng Transport MEC, Ismail Vadi said. This comes after the violence that broke out on Wednesday where four people were killed and at least six others injured. The taxi operators in Tsakane are alleged to have engaged in a meeting with members from the Brakpan Taxi Association over the Tsakane and Brakpan routes where the shootout followed after that meeting. Speaking to Afro Worldview on Monday, Vadi said that they have since received information that following the incident, the South African National Taxi Council (SANTACO) has intervened to seek to resolve the internal disputes that sparked the violence. Eight people were arrested in relation to the shooting, amongst them were security guards allegedly hired by the taxi association. The police also seized about 10 firearms.  WATCH: taxi owner Mr  Dan Masango explains what the #TsakaneTaxi dispute is about  @afroworldview pic.twitter.com/oLMolo5H5H — Oliver Meth (@oliver_meth) May 24, 2018   Police Commissioner Deliwe Delanga has assessed the situation at #TsakaneTaxi rank, she will then liaise with MEC Vadi and a decision would be made then after whether the rank would reopen @afroworldview — Oliver Meth (@oliver_meth) May 24, 2018   MEC Vadi closed Tsakane taxi rank but his reasons  were vague.  It's clear he's been intentionally kept in the dark as perpetrators advance their selfish interests at the expense of the innocent. They refuse to help rid illegal operations cos somehow divisions are a worthy cause — SANTACO (@SA_Taxis) May 24, 2018  Commuters in the Tsakane/Brakpan area are urged to make alternative transport arrangements following taxi violence this morning that led to the killing of four taxi drivers and seriously injuring six others #TsakaneTaxiRankShooting pic.twitter.com/KevtlNwiEZ — GautengGov (@GautengProvince) May 23, 2018  Taxi related shooting Brakpan CBD. AVOID. pic.twitter.com/Lrs7UyBs3Z — East Rand Traffic (@PeeMoTraffic) May 23, 2018  -Afro Voice Reporter