THE Department of Public Works has identified 3 500 hectares of land to be released for social housing, including student accommodation, as well as a further 22000 hectares for land reform. In a pre-budget briefing yesterday, Public Works Minister Thulas Nxesi said the Ministry of Higher Education and Training had been given a list of possible buildings that will also be used for student accommodation. A joint task team has been formed to expedite the matter, he said yesterday. Nxesi also said that the department targeted 75% of procurement to go to designated groups while 33% of new leases would be for B-BBEE companies. “Let me sound a warning to tenderpreneurs. This is not an invitation to radical economic looting whereby a few politically connected syndicates receive huge contracts. “Rather we will target emerging black entrepreneurs who offer real value and tangible benefits to government.” On state-owned land, Nxesi said that the department’s view was that there were many city buildings countrywide that could be used for housing. “But we want to start with student accommodation. There is a big crisis. We have to move very fast. There are spaces of land we have released.” When land was released in the Western Cape, the provincial government wanted to use it for something else “when we have released it for social, housing. That’s an issue that we will address,” Nxesi said. On land owned by entities such as Transnet and Eskom, Deputy Minister Jeremy Cronin said these state-owned companies often wanted to dispose of the land at market-related prices. “It’s a discussion that will come up at the ANC land reform workshop this weekend on how we can use public lands more strategically for social purposes.” Nxesi said that the Department of Public Works was trying to persuade all government departments to use stateowned office space in Pretoria. This directive, he said, was given long ago during the time of former president Thabo Mbeki. “That no department must look for accommodation outside Pretoria … that has never been enforced. We are enforcing it now. We are starting to be tough with departments.” On the SANDF, Nxesi said that normally the powers to control land assets were delegated to the SANDF. “When they’re done and they have decided not to use it they just desert. In some instance they desert without informing us.” Public Works has identified unused properties with a value of R7.4bn for disposal or letting. “This list will be advertised on an open tender that will culminate in a national property, marketing and investment conference that will be held within the next six months.” -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN