NEGOTIATING the dark past of South Africa and the freedom we have come to inherit is the three-part documentary, by young film maker Nhlanhla Mthethwa, The Negotiated Settlement, which aired for the first time on Sunday, May 13, with the second episode on May 20 on SABC3. Mthethwa has roped in voices of young and veteran commentators and stalwarts among them former president Thabo Mbeki, Sizwe Mpofu-Walsh, Patricia De Lille, Zulaikha Patel, Floyd Shivambu, Nhlanhla Nene, Christine Qunta, Nyiko Shikwambane, Tony Leon, Herman Mashaba, Mzwakhe Mbuli, Andile Mngxitama, Mavivi Myakayaka, George Bizos and Albie Sachs. “Over the years and listening to the many debates on how we have come to be the South Africa that we are with a lot of issues, poverty and the economic gap between black and white, I was not inspired, but decided to try and make sense of how these many issues affect us as South Africans. I then decided to trace it back to where it all started. “Many of those who part of the struggle never got to see the negotiation, let alone the democracy. They either died in exile or were imprisoned and therefore could not take part in the talks. Our duty is to put the story out there and let South Africans themselves decide for themselves on how, as a democracy, we still face the issues of inequality.” Mthethwa said the documentary film endeavours to accompany the viewer to some of the unheralded moments leading up to the release of Nelson Mandela – touching on liberal exigencies led by Helen Suzman for the ANC to suspend the armed struggle at a meeting in Dakar, Senegal, circa 1987 and OR Tambo’s stern rebuttal for the apartheid regime to release Mandela and others. With the last episode earmarked for Sunday, May 27, Mthethwa said it is up to the young people to stop complaining about what happened during the negotiations but to carry the baton and make the country right. “It has been 25 years of democracy and some of the young people complaining about how the negotiations have affected them were not even there, yet they feel strongly about issues. I feel even though they might have a point in their arguments, it is up to us to change the things we feel are not working as we can’t change the past or go back to the negotiations,” he said. The last episode, also touches on current issues such as free education and the land expropriation debate. -SIYABONGA SITHOLE|siyabongas@afrotone.co.za