THE ANC’s national executive committee (NEC) has placed its finger on the pulse regarding the state of affairs of its provincial structures. The ANC was rocked by the murder of two of its members in KwaZulu-Natal and Mpumalanga at the weekend. Both provinces have been battling to convene provincial conferences due to allegations of gate-keeping and bouts of violence that have erupted at regional conferences. ANC acting Mpumalanga chairperson Mandla Ndlovu said yesterday that a report of the province’s state of affairs would be tabled to the NEC for scrutiny. “The NEC will deal with the province’s state of readiness and we’ll know what the approach will be,” he said. The ANC’s national dispute resolution committee recently touched down in the province to hear a dispute relating to processes leading up to the provincial general council (PGC), to elect a replacement for Deputy President David Mabuza as provincial chairperson. Ndlovu said that due to the committee’s visit to deal with the dispute, the ANC provincial general council was placed on ice and that the NEC would now make an assessment on whether or not the PGC would proceed. “It happened two weeks ago and all problems were dealt with. We were given tasks to perform and I am comfortable with the way issues were dealt with. “But it depends on the NEC to resolve the matter. “We’ll convene a PEC and discuss things further,” Ndlovu said. At a regional conference at the weekend, an uMkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association (MKMVA) member was shot dead during a scuffle and another ANC member from KwaZuluNatal was shot and killed on Saturday night. ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule at the weekend condemned the spate of violence involving ANC members. He added that some regional conferences in KwaZulu-Natal would be put on hold to deal with challenges besetting them. “We have discussed the issues of conferences throughout the country. All regional conferences must go on except where situations we need to go and work. In KwaZulu-Natal, there will be one or two regions where we won’t go ahead with the regional conferences. “We will deal with challenges and problems of manipulation gate keeping. We feel that things have not been done, we won’t go ahead with the conference,” Magashule said. -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@afrotone.co.za