THE upcoming ANC elective conference in Gauteng will have to come up with a new path on dealing with service delivery, acting chairperson David Makhura said. He was speaking at a media briefing in Johannesburg yesterday. He said contesting for leadership positions should not downgrade the congress but rather come up with policies of how to deal with pressing matters concerning the communities. “We need a conference that will deliver an organised, disciplined, people-centred ANC. “Our conference should focus on changing the lives of the people of this province. We find ourselves in the environment of contesting because we have created it ourselves, it is healthy for democracy,” he said. The party in the province is scheduled to host regional and provincial conferences by June. Makhura is tipped as the successor to former chairperson and now the national treasurer-general, Paul Mashatile. The party will also seek to fill the vacancies created by members who were elected at the ruling party’s December national conference. “Even the unity it is not about the ANC but it is about the people of this country. “We are also saying that the conference must be free from gate-keeping and the use of money. “We have not really got a handle on the use of money in this province, that is the only thing we are battling with now, but we will get it right,” he said. Makhura said they were going to fight tooth and nail against money being brought into conferences. He also urged ANC members to stop attacking each other on public platforms. “Our conference will be a place of ideas, not violence and should it occur there will be consequences,” he said. Meanwhile, the provincial secretary, Hope Papo, said 50 branches failed audit processes conducted by the national audit team. Papo said only 471 branches passed their audit outcomes out of 529 they have. “There are range of factors that contribute to why the branch might fail. It could be that it does not have 100 plus members as required for a branch to qualify. “But we are happy that the majority of our branches have passed the audit and will be participating,” he said. According to Papo it was all systems go for conferences in their regions to regain lost ground, especially in Ekurhuleni and Tshwane. “We call on all ANC members and supporters to participate actively and constructively in the branch meetings and conferences in order to ensure that Gauteng province has strong, dynamic and credible leadership at all levels,” Papo said. Besides Gauteng, ANC structures in the other eight provinces are in the process of preparing for regional and provincial conferences. -TIISETSO MANOKO|tiisetsom@afrotone.co.za