THE national Treasury is not planning to place the Mangaung metro under financial administration but has started a process to help the city to develop a sustainable financial recovery plan. The metro has already had an intensive two-day working session with the national Treasury and the corporate governance and traditional affairs departments. The meeting came against the backdrop of realisation by a team from the metro that there were shortfalls in other areas of service delivery in the city. The culmination of these series of meetings was for the city, national Treasury, Cogta and other relevant stakeholders to come under one roof and come up with a financial recovery plan in order to accelerate service delivery in Mangaung, especially where there are gaps, metro spokesperson Qondile Khedama said. He said the national Treasury had committed to refining the financial recovery plan, and will form part of monitoring its implementation. In her official opening of the session, the executive mayor, Olly Mlamleli, said it was a myth that the national Treasury would be placing the metro under administration. “There is a rumour doing the rounds that the institution will be placed under Section 139, effectively placed under administration. These stories must not derail us from delivering sustainable service delivery,” Mlamleli said. “We approached the national Treasury and asked them how we could work together to come with a strategy of taking action and changing the face of Mangaung. This is the first step of us developing a strategy that will sustain our work towards service delivery that must be felt by people on the ground, in the streets of Mangaung. “We are also here to appeal from your willingness to contribute to being part of this history, of having sat down and helped develop this financial sustainable strategy. If we do not have a vision about the institution, it means service delivery will be at its lowest.” She said as part of strengthening the city’s relationship with the private sector and various stakeholders, the plan would also be presented to stakeholders at a later stage. Meanwhile, the city has started to implement full credit control and debt collection procedures to recover outstanding debts from customers in order to meet its financial commitments, Khedama said. He said all defaulting properties under the control of the Free State department of public works had their water and electricity supplies disconnected last Thursday.  -BECKER SEMELA|beckers@afrotone.co.za