Embattled Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille announced on Thursday that Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) National Chairperson Adv Dali Mpofu will form part of the legal team representing her in the fight against the DA in the High Court on Friday. Following the DA Federal Executives’ announcement on Tuesday that her membership from the party has been ceased, De Lille announced that she is taking her own party to court over the decision. I'm happy to announce that @AdvDali_Mpofu will join my legal team tomorrow in the High court. — Patricia de Lille (@PatriciaDeLille) May 10, 2018  “I will show on Friday that this so-called automatic cessation clause is unconstitutional, and it is unfairly applied to me. That is the purpose of going to the court on Friday,” said De Lille following the DA’s announcement. De Lille is accused of bringing the party into disrepute, as well as breaching the conditions of her suspension. The DA initially intended to remove her by using the party’s recently adopted “recall” clause. The party is now using section 3.5.1.2 of its constitution to get rid of De Lille citing that she had made public declarations about her intention to resign from the party, which is against its rules. The DA cited a radio interview on Radio 702 where she alluded ‘on two occasions’ that she indicated to resign from the DA as soon as she “had cleared her name”. Following the announcement the DA had ceased her membership, the party had been accused of targeting her. De Lille has also said on numerous occasions that she was unfairly treated. Thinking about @PatriciaDeLille as she considers her next move and thanking her for the ethical and manner she handled @PublicProtector team and the respectful and compassionate matter with which she handled complainants during my term as @PublicProtector https://t.co/5Vdfn5P4gO — Prof Thuli Madonsela (@ThuliMadonsela3) May 9, 2018  1) Political preferences aside, is there any principled difference between the ANC wanting to get rid of Supra Mahumapelo (or having gotten rid of Jacob Zuma) & the DA wanting to get rid of Patricia De Lille? Not sure why the situations are treated so differently by commentariat. — Pierre de Vos (@pierredevos) May 10, 2018  I am for analysis on the impact of the expulsion of @PatriciaDeLille on the DA during the next general elections, but twitter outrage is no barometer especially if most who speak out were not voting for it anyway. Will it have an impact in WC? I think so? How big? I don’t know — Mbhazima Shilowa (@Enghumbhini) May 8, 2018  -Afro Reporter