AMID heightened fear and suspicion following the discovery of a home-made bomb at the Imam Hussein mosque in Ottawa near Verulam in Durban, where a person was killed and two others injured in a bizarre attack on Thursday, Islamic scholar Prof Farid Esack says the mosque had clearly been a target of a terrorist attack but allayed fears that Islamic terrorism had “arrived” in South Africa. “An act of terror is not always part of a larger network. It can be perpetrated by an individual or a group of individuals acting entirely on their own although they may be inspired by a larger ideological, religious or political vision in whose name they act.” The home-made explosive device, which Hawks said was “filled with highly flammable liquid attached to wires, linked to a Nokia cellphone”, was found under Moulana Ali Nchiyane’s chair while congregants had gathered for the evening prayer on Sunday, a mere three days after the gruesome murder and attempted murder at the mosque. “Based on the eyewitness account of one of the survivors of what the attackers said, I am convinced that the Verulam mosque attack was indeed a terrorist attack. A singular terrorist attack involving Muslims does not mean that Muslim or Islamic terrorism has arrived in South Africa in the same way that writing a single poem does not make one a poet,” Esack said. Hawks spokesperson Capt Simphiwe Mhlongo said there were critical questions raised by the latest threat. “As the Hawks we were here at the mosque on Thursday and again with the forensics team on Friday before we handed it back to the chairperson that evening. “Yet there were no explosives found, the question is who put it there and when. Also we have to look at why it did not detonate when it was picked up by the congregant and who was there at that time. We are looking at all angles, it is a worrying factor that this device was not found all along. But we don’t want to speculate,” Mhlongo said. Prem Balram, spokesperson of Reaction Unit South Africa (Rusa), which was the first to respond to last week’s attack and the discovery of the bomb, said: “When we got there the bomb was already outside the mosque and we were told that a congregant had brought it out. “We called the police to cordon off the area where the bomb was located.” Sarisha Mohunla, l whose family was evacuated from their home about 6pm by the police, said: “Since Thursday we have been traumatised by what is happening. We thought it was over but now we are wondering what’s next. There’s never been any trouble with the mosque before so we are now shocked and scared about what is going on and who the target of these attacks is.” But as fear and panic rose in the small rural north KwaZulu-Natal town, the Hawks and Esack warned against finger pointing. “There is always a need for community caution, solid intelligence work and sound security measures by communities targeted and the country’s security services. “Furthermore, an end to religious hate speech by a few Muslim clerics and incitement to violence by their followers – particularly on social media – will certainly go a long way in starving religious bigots and unhinged individuals hell-bent on violence,” Esack said. Meanwhile, MEC Sihle Zikalala was angry at Rusa for allegedly perpetuating incorrect information on incidents of crime, especially on social media following Balram’s allegation on Sunday, that three German tourists in their 80s had been robbed at gunpoint along the N2. Zikalala lambasted Rusa saying the victims were not German tourists but South Africans. “This is a regrettable incident and the SAPS is working around the clock to apprehend the suspects. However, it is equally regrettable for private security companies to peddle unsubstantiated reports, which have the potential to negatively affect the reputation of the country,” Zikalala said. The conduct of the security company is also under scrutiny by the Hawks. -SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO|sibongisenim@afrotone.co.za