WHEN Mamelodi Sundowns and Barcelona go up against each other at FNB stadium tomorrow, all eyes will be on the impressive line-up of superstars turning out for the Catalan club. Having confirmed that all the Barca stars will be play against Sundowns in a match that form part of Nelson Mandela centenary celebrations, football fans will be eager to see the likes of Lionel Messi, Andres Iniesta, Sergio Busquets and Luis Suarez. This is the match where Sundowns players will be going all out to give their all, not only trying to impress Barcelona, but the millions who will be watching across the continent and worldwide. This could be a match which may also open the door for many players at Sundowns given the number of scouts and clubs watching the friendly. Players like Percy Tau, who has had an outstanding season in the PSL, will be out to show his skills against one of the best teams in the world. Coach Pitso Mosimane, who has been successful in the domestic and continental competitions, will also want to test his tactics against Barca’s coaches. It’s only a friendly, but there is certainly a lot to look forward to in this encounter with Barca’s short-passing expertise. Sundowns will also want to showcase what South Africa can offer as they play possession football as do the La Liga champions. Sundowns defender Thapelo Morena said they will use the match as a learning curve against some of the world’s best players. “It is going to be something that we’ll learn from to take us forward on an international front,” Morena said. “Percy Tau likes to watch Messi in action but this time he gets to compete with him on the other side of the pitch.” Barcelona coach Ernesto Valverde said that they will use this match as a training session ahead of their final La Liga match against Real Sociedad at Camp Nou. “The friendly in South Africa? We take it as a kind of training session, I will use several players and we will fulfil our club’s commitments,” Valverde said. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@afrotone.co.za