Democratic Alliance (DA) leader Mmusi Maimane says President Cyril Ramaphosa’s performance since coming into office has overall been filled with lots of hype and failed actions. This was Maimane and the DA’s assessment of President Ramaphosa’s first 100 days in office presented during a media briefing on Monday. Flanked by DA Chief Whip in Parliament, John Steenhuisen and DA Shadow Minister in the Presidency, Sejamothopo Motau, the opposition party has given Ramaphosa a rating of six out of 10 for his overall performance since coming into office. “Over the past 100 days, it has become clear that regardless of Ramaphosa’s intentions, he is a comprised President whose powers are greatly restrained by his political party, and by the individual and interest groups that got him elected. The cracks in “Ramaphoria” are beginning to widen,” said Maimane. According to the DA, the Presidents performance has been poorest in terms of effectively dealing with several economic matters, chief among those, not being able to curb rising unemployment which has risen from 9,216 million in the previous quarter to 9,481 million. “Just tinkering at the edges, with a talk shop here and a summit there, will not fundamentally restructure the economy to creates jobs. The President still has a long way to go when it comes to the economy,” said Maimane. The DA has also accused Ramaphosa of not effectively dealing with corruption. “Over the past 100 days, the evidence of Ramaphosa tackling corruption head-on has been scant, and he has left much to be wanting,” said Maimane. The opposition party has called on the President to take action against ANC members accused of corruption including Secretary-General, Ace Magashule, and National Spokesperson, Pule Mabe. Shadow Minister in the Presidency, Sejamothopo Motau also decried the state of basic education in the country saying three out of four children in South Africa cannot read fluently. He urged Ramaphosa to ensure that teachers union SADTU’s perceived “hold on education” is broken as well as bring back teacher training colleges and independent inspectors to inspect schools and teaching. “There should be a partnership of schools and not a division of schools,” he said. Meanwhile, following the ANC’s two-day land summit at the weekend in Boksburg, Maimane suggested that Ramaphosa has not been clear with respect to how the land reform process should unfold. “In his first 100 days, the President has missed an opportunity to affect real change and unity in our nation regarding the land question. Instead, he’s reverted to the ANC’s rhetoric on blaming the Constitution – while many black South Africans remain without land and without dignity. 