ANC regional and provincial structures are in a race against time to convene elective conferences before the end of July as mandated by the ruling party’s national executive committee (NEC). ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule on Tuesday reminded the ruling party’s regional and provincial structures, whose terms in office had expired or were about to, that they had to hold conferences by the end of July. However, while some were ready to usher in new leadership in upcoming conferences, others were still gripped by paralysis owing to internal strife and division. This comes as the ANC’s pending elective conference in KwaZuluNatal, which was supposed to have kicked off this weekend, is expected to take place at a later stage. ANC NEC members have been deployed to the party’s trouble-torn Moses Mabhida, Harry Gwala and Lower South Coast region to measure their state of preparedness for regional general meetings. ANC Limpopo provincial secretary Knox Seabi said yesterday that following the successful completion of its Waterberg and Peter Mokaba regional general meetings, the province would be going to conference from June 22-24. He said that despite differences of opinions at branch level, the conference would be fair, inclusive and free from manipulation. ANC Mpumalanga acting provincial chairperson Mandla Ndlovu said a report of the province’s state of affairs had been tabled for the NEC at the weekend and a PEC meeting would soon be convened to chart the way forward for a provincial general council. The ANC dispute resolution committee touched down in the province to deal with complaints over processes in preparation for the PGC to find a replacement for Deputy President David Mabuza as provincial chairperson. The ANC in Gauteng is on course to hold five regional conferences and its provincial conference before the end of June. The ANC in the Western Cape has also promised to wrap up its regional conferences before the end of June. Provincial spokesperson Yonela Diko said yesterday it was all systems go for the party’s six regions in the province. -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@afrotone.co.za