A new era of hope is reverberating across our nation, ushering in a sense of renewal that is moving our economy forward with greater confidence in the country as an investment destination of choice. The government is building on this optimism by starting a cycle of investment that will attract more than R1 trillion over the next five years. At the Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting last month, President Cyril Ramaphosa said: “The government is initiating measures to set the economy on a new path of growth, employment, and transformation. “We are moving to restore credibility, stabilise the finances and improve governance at state-owned companies.” Ramaphosa met British Prime Minister Theresa May on the sidelines of the meeting on deepening the partnership on economic matters. Britain has committed R858m for the next four years to support the aim to make the country attractive to investors. The president has appointed four special envoys to engage domestic and foreign investors: former finance minister Trevor Manuel, former finance deputy minister Mcebisi Jonas, executive chairperson of Afropulse Phumzile Langeni and former Standard Bank chief executive Jacko Maree. “They will take our investment story, which includes new opportunities in the green economy, oil, and gas, shipbuilding, oceans economy and renewable energy, to global investors in a focused and cost-effective manner. Their ultimate aim is to reverse the decline in foreign direct investment from 24% of GDP in 2008 to about 19% today. Our National Development Plan has set a target of foreign direct investment in the country at 30% of GDP. ” The envoys will travel to Asia, the Middle East, Europe and the Americas and also so seek out investors on the continent. The investment drive will culminate in a major investment conference which will report on deals that have been concluded and provide a platform for would-be investors to seek out opportunities in SA. “We believe these investments will contribute significantly to our national goals of rapidly growing the economy and support socio-economic development. They begin a cycle of employment and consumer demand. “The responsibility, however, to create an environment that attracts inward investment is not government’s alone. South Africans, as shareholders in the country, have a vested interest in promoting the country. “We should never lose sight of the positive attributes that make our country an investment destination. They include our stable democracy, sound financial system, and highly regulated banking sector. Investors are supported by world-class infrastructure, innovation, research and development capabilities, and an established manufacturing base. In a bid to cut red tape, work is underway to rationalise and streamline investment regulations and reduce the cost of establishing and running businesses. For example, our InvestSA One Stop Shop brings together all government services in one place. Increased investment in manufacturing and related sectors is being targeted through more effective use of industrial incentives, special economic zones, and local procurement requirements. “In the spirit of ‘Thuma Mina’ let us use every opportunity to profile SA and share our investment offerings with the world. To be part of our investment success requires each one of us, in the words of the late great Bra Hugh Masekela in his song Thuma Mina, to boldly proclaim ‘send me’.” Dr Rob Davies is Trade and Industry Minister