THE South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) has vowed to invade Parliament during the debate on the national minimum wage. General secretary Zwelinzima Vavi spoke yesterday to members of the media on the outcomes of their one-day national executive committee meeting. He said once the dates of the debate were made public, their members would be in full swing. He said they were not going to be intimidated when raising the issues that pertained to the workers. “We are going to go to Parliament when they debate the minimum wage and we will be in bigger numbers, calling for the scrapping of the minimum wage,” Vavi said. “We will be making our voices heard, our members will be inside and outside Parliament once the timetable has been issued.” Vavi said they were in full support of their members who were kicked out of Parliament last week during the portfolio committee meeting on labour when they were discussing the minimum wage. “We cannot take our foot off the accelerator and let the working class down. The campaign must not only be continued but intensified,” he said. Vavi said the days of sweetheart unions were over and they were going to put pressure on the government not to go through with the minimum wage. “If our presence in Parliament fails to sway the minds of MPs, we are already committed to a threeday general strike and even bigger marches that will bring the country to a halt.” Vavi said R20 an hour could not be a living wage in a time when prices were rising. He said their call for the minimum wage to be rejected was receiving support from other political parties such as the Economic Freedom Fighters, United Democratic Movement and Pan African Congress, among others. “We want a living wage of R12 500 a month, as demanded by the Marikana martyrs,” Vavi said. He said the minimum wage was nothing but a compromise by Cosatu to impress President Cyril Ramaphosa. “Saftu is determined to fight to get entrance as a party in the National Economic Development and Labour Council (Nedlac) so that we can expose the class collaboration which is going on behind closed doors,” Vavi said. He said their affiliated unions were not going to sign the wage offer because the offer was not speaking to the needs of the workers and those who were signing it were not doing justice to the workers. -TIISETSO MANOKO|tiisetsom@afrotone.co.za