NETBALL South Africa has received backing from South African Sports Confederation and Olympic Committee (Sascoc) president Gideon Sam to bid for the hosting of the 2023 World Cup. South Africa is to compete against New Zealand for the right to host the Netball World Cup in 2023 and Sam said that they will do their all to make sure they win the bid later this year. Having also impressed Sports Minister Tokozile Xasa in the latest Eminent Person’s Group on Transformation in Sport report released on Monday with netball improving from 37% to 56%, they are very likely to receive backing from the government as well. “We in sport have always been given a priority by the government as well as Sascoc,” Sam said. “I think what we are saying is that there are processes that must fall in place. One of them for instance is to write a letter to acting CEO Patience Shikwambana and that’s done. “Then it will go to the Department of Sport and when that it ticked off, then we come to you as sponsors. “We believe in the fact that if we host, we grow the sport. For us to be constantly going to other countries and to play in their territory is not good for our growth of sport. “Yes we do recognise all our big sponsors and from our side the support is there and I know there won’t be an unnecessary stumbling block to make this happen. Let’s just be patient as we go through the processes.” Netball SA president Cecilia Molokwane said they were confident that they would get a positive respond from Sascoc and the government. “We are still in the process and we are waiting for relevant bodies to give us answers because it is not a process which you can do in one day,” Molokwane said. “We are still waiting for answers from the department and Sascoc and they are positive in everything we do.” Meanwhile, the fifth season of the Brutal Fruit Netball Premier League will start on Friday at the Ellis Park Indoor Arena where it will be held for two weekends before heading to the University of Pretoria sport campus. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@afrotone.co.za