The Department of Water and Sanitation has admitted that there has been some ‘overspending’. This comes after the Organisation Undoing Tax Abuse (OUTA) said that the departments budget shows that it plans to spend about R88‚500 to replace a single bucket toilet for the 2018/2019 financial year. Outa said the targeted amount was extracted by the organisation from the department’s budget on a part of its expenditure on infrastructure. Speaking to Afro Worldview on Thursday, DWS spokesperson Sputnik Ratau quoted Minister of Water and Sanitation Gugile Nkwinti. “The minister even on Tuesday does come back to say there has been overspending. Overspending is an admission that something went wrong, and if he says that in the next figures that are going to be Audited by the Auditor general as in the 31st of July, that overspending will still reflect, and that means there has been something wrong happening,” he said. Breaking down the alleged R88‚500 amount per toilet, Ratau said that Outa was incorrect in how it came to the amount. Ratau said that there were more costs that would lead to the amount than just the actual replacement of the toilets. “There are other things that come in, there are issues of whether there are available water services, pipe sewage systems.” He said that about 70% of the budgeted amount went towards other things like the designing and other costs. Ratau said that the minister instructed that things must be done differently this time and to take action against officials who fail to ‘follow the line’. “The issue of the bucket eradication is a serious issue because it speaks to the indignity of the African people that they have suffered too much indignity over time and its something that we are not proud of.” Meanwhile, Outa’s portfolio manager for water and environment Yamkela Ntola says that the organisation would further engage with the Department to get to the bottom of the matter and hold responsible officials accountable. “It is insufficient for us as far as we are concerned for the minister to say that moving  forward those who are then responsible for wrong ding will be held accountable,” he said He says that Outa was not only interested in throwing figures around but to hold officials accountable. -Afro Voice Reporter