THE IT sector in South Africa expected to create as much as 119000 net new jobs over the course of the next five years, a new study shows. Data analytics firm IDC is finding that digital transformation in the era of intelligent cloud and intelligent edge will enable organisations to create new jobs, with the IT sector in SA expected to grow at a five-year compounded annual growth rate of 4.25% to reach R175bn by 2022. The report, entitled Economic Impact of IT and Microsoft in SA, the increased utilisation of cloud services and investments in hybrid cloud solutions will enable organisations to focus on innovation and accelerate the pace of digital business transformation, which will help businesses generate at least R81bn in net new revenues over the next five years. “Advancements in data analytics, machine learning combined with new computing experiences, are driving a new era of working – new ways on how to engage with customers, empower employees, optimise operations and transform business models,” managing director at Microsoft SA, Zoaib Hoosen said. It is estimated that by 2020, there will be 30 billion connected devices, according to the IDC research group, with many people using multiple devices daily. The ability to move experiences from device to device requires us to orchestrate these devices using the cloud as the control plane. The intelligent edge will become the interface between the computer and the real world, enabling companies to gather significant amounts of data and valuable insights from the data and apply AI to enhance workplace safety, security and productivity. However, doing so requires responsibility to ensure that access to these services is democratised more broadly across society and that the technologies we create are trusted by the individuals and organisations that use them. To deliver upon this promise of responsibility, there are three key local initiatives through which Microsoft and its partners are ensuring technology’s benefits reach more people. Firstly, Microsoft partners with companies developing solutions that enable internet connectivity and energy access in underserved communities. For instance, there are two key projects within Limpopo and Eastern Cape that leverage TV White Space technology to provide affordable access to the community, schools and public clinics among others. Secondly, the company continues to invest in increasing the access to digital skills in SA. The past year alone, Microsoft has invested more than $2.8m (R35m) in education and the development of critical skills in SA. To date, the company has trained more than 8 000 teachers, enabling them to leverage technology in the classroom and ensure pupils gain the 21st Century skills they require to be successful in their future workplace. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@afrotone.co.za