Democratic Alliance (DA) Federal Executive is now considering the submissions made by the City of Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille on why she should not resign as the city’s mayor. De Lille on Wednesday made a submission to the Executive after the party’s caucus in the City of Cape Town voted in favour of her removal. She had until the end of Wednesday to make her submission on why she should keep her job. DA’s Deputy Chairperson of Federal Council Natasha Mazzone said the FedEx will now be considering de Lille’s submissions. “It is important that this process of considering the submissions not be rushed, and that FedEx properly and fairly apply their minds,” Mazzone said. In her submission to the FedEx, de Lille said she did not believe that it had properly considered and interrogated the reasons for the motion of no confidence in her before allowing the caucus to proceed with it. She said the reasons which were listed as a motivation for her removal lacked details like the name of the complainant or specific examples of transgressions with dates. “Had the matter been properly considered, surely FedEx would have wanted to know more details, in order to assess the seriousness of the allegations of transgressions as well as the dates of the transgressions in order to ensure that there is not an attempt to apply the clause retroactively?”, de Lille said. De Lille has also requested that party leader Mmusi Maimane, Mazzone, Federal Chairperson James Selfe and DA Western Cape leader Bonginkosi Madikizela to recuse themselves from the Federal Executive committee as they have clearly demonstrated on several media platforms their bias against her. She said as such she is not hopeful that the FedEx would take a decision to favour her and has also threatened legal action if adverse findings are made against her. “As you may understand, given the circumstances, I have little faith in a positive result. The Party is going through the motions in my view in order to implement its new recall clause,” said de Lille. Mazzone said the fact that the mayor decided to make her submission public will not affect the FedEx’s decision in any way. Should the FedEx decide against de Lille’s submission, she will be instructed to resign from her position in 48 hours, failure to do could see the party terminating her membership. During the party’s Federal Congress in April, the party adopted new rules which would make it possible for it to recall elected officials from their positions. De Lille has maintained that the rules are aimed at removing her from her position. Mazzone said the DA has at all times acted to ensure that the people who have entrusted it with their votes come first at all times. “This includes removing those who do not adhere to the high standards of clean and efficient governance which the DA demands,” she said. -Afro Reporter 