IN 2016 local television star Nomzamo Mbatha stunned at the Cannes Film Festival as part of the South African team representing the Joburg Film Festival and South Africa. Last year Mbatha once again wowed the crowds in a proudly South African Rich Factory design that showcased her elegance and sense of style. Two years later the Isibaya actress is back to serve her fans even more glam at the world’s prestigious film festival. She posted a picture of herself draped in a flowing skirt and wrap jacket designed by Tshepo Mafokwane of Sober Design House. It seems the popular film festival has become her playground as she continues to serve the festival with her fashion sense each year. The 71st instalment of the Cannes Film Festival, which kicked off on Tuesday, offers movie makers from across the globe 12 days and nights of film, glamour and fun. To mark the occasion, some of the most beautiful women in the world – actresses, models, singers and brand ambassadors strode down the legendary red carpet. Red carpet fashionistas Penelope Cruz, Julianne Moore, Chloe Sevigny and many others walked the glamorous red carpet events. This past Thursday, Lupita Nyong’o was spotted on the red carpet in an angelic white feathered dress and Chopard jewels at the Sorry Angel screening. On Saturday, Hollywood stars including Cate Blanchett, Kristen Stewart and Salma Hayek called for equal pay in the cinema industry in a historic red carpet protest at the Cannes film festival. Eighty-two actresses, filmmakers and producers marched arm and arm to demand equality and “a safe workplace” seven months after the world was shaken by the #MeToo movement and the fall of mogul Harvey Weinstein. The ranks included a battalion of Oscar winners from Helen Mirren and Marion Cotillard to US blockbuster directors Ava DuVernay and Patty Jenkins who made Wonder Woman. The number of protesters was highly symbolic as it represented the 82 films by female directors who have competed for the top Palme d’Or prize since 1946, a number dwarfed by the nearly 1 700 male contenders – With Relaxnews siyabongas@afrotone.co.za