MULTIPLE award-winning jazz guitarist and producer Kunle Ayo is on a quest to unearth African talent and potential through his new mentorship and grooming venture for upcoming instrumentalists from across the continent. Through his Beam The Light development programme the star is preparing to showcase young talent at the first ever annual Beam The Light concert, which is set to happen on Africa Day, May 25. Ayo, who has worked with music industry heavyweights, said it was about time that instrumentalists got the recognition they deserved. “We always see musicians being put in the spotlight and sometimes overlook the guys who create the music through musical instruments, so this time the aim is to put the talented instrumentalists in the fore who have not been exposed to the business and entertainment side,” he said. The list boasts African musical heavy hitters such as Ringo Madlingozi, Oliver Mtukudzi, Hlengiwe Mhlaba, Lebo Sekgobela and a few surprises. “There is a brain drain of experienced and talented African musicians, and that robs the continent’s young of an opportunity to be groomed properly by their idols. As an experienced African musician spending more time overseas, recording in the studio, managing media and administrative work, one loses the opportunity to give back to the community. “Sometimes, even losing touch with the challenges facing the continent.” The guitarist says he realised this conundrum when he was on tour discussing the challenges bedeviling the continent. “I realised we talk about these things all the time and do little about them – especially education. “It was then I decided to call on my friends to shed a light as to how we could be a solution,” the enterprising live performer told Afro Voice. It took a while for the idea to materialise and Ayo says the solution was for him to start with what he already had – his musical experience, skills and recording studio, a strong network of friends and an open heart, which meant the dream of discovering, nurturing and supporting emerging musicians began earnestly. “The mentors have been carefully selected and we are highly confident that their work and experience will ensure the mentoring programme will create the best instrumentalists on the continent. I have worked with Oliver Mtukudzi for more than 10 years, his passion and knowledge for music is admirable. “Ringo is my brother, he knows how to sing and plays an instrument, a combination, which I trust will yield positive results for this mentoring programme.” The Bibanke hitmaker said the search would start on Wednesday in Soweto. “We will be out and about scouting for talent, visiting Pimville, Jabulani and Zola. Participants will have to know the basics of at least one musical instrument and we will take it from there,” Ayo said. -NONTOKOZO GXUMISA|nontokozog@afrotone.co.za