Democratic Alliance(DA) plans to lay bribery and corruption charges against ANC member of parliament Mduduzi Manana. This comes after an audio clip where Manana could be heard trying to give R100 000 to his former domestic worker Christine Wiro who had just laid charges against him to withdraw the charges emerged. On Monday, Wiro withdrew charges of common assault against Manana which she laid on Sunday against the former Deputy Higher Education Minister at Douglasdale police station. DA Shadow Minister of Women Terri Stander said she will on Monday be laying charges against Manana, at the same place where the initial case against Manana was opened. Stander said in the audio clip, Manana clearly attempts to offer Wiro money in order to benefit himself and avoid further prosecution. Last year, Manana was sentenced to a 1-year imprisonment or a R100 000 fine after he was found guilty of assaulting a young woman at Cubana nightclub in Fourways. “He clearly unlawfully and intentionally tried to take advantage of her by subjecting her to financial pressure. “He obviously wanted to use his privileged position and tried to buy himself out of accountability,” Stander said. Stander said she was pleased that the police were still busy investigating the case despite Wiro withdrawing charges against Manana. “We are further pleased to hear that the National Prosecuting Authority(NPA) has refused to withdraw the latest charges against him. “We maintain that Manana belongs in prison and not in Parliament.” Said Stander. Stander said prior to the emergence of the audio clip, she lodged a complaint with parliament’s ethics committee against Manana because she said, he should answer for his behaviour. Meanwhile, ANC Youth league has also called for Manana to step down as ANC’s member of parliament. The Youth League said no individual or persons, irrespective of their standing or social classification had a right to mete violence against any human being, especially women and children. -Afro Reporter