WITH only a few days remaining before the announcement of the Springbok team to do battle against Wales and England in the June series, Springbok coach Rassie Erasmus has two major difficulties to figure out. Ahead of his first team announcement, he has to work out who his locks will be and perhaps the most difficult question, who will lead the Boks? With regular locks Eben Etzebeth and Lood de Jager ruled out of the series with injuries, Erasmus will be forced to start his reign with a new pairing at second row. Stormers lock Pieter-Steph du Toit, who has played second fiddle to De Jager and Etzebeth, will be the favourite to get the nod in the team. Du Toit has been a regular starter for his side in Super Rugby this season, albeit in different positions. He is expected to be one lock Erasmus will turn to based on his international experience. Erasmus might also recall Lions’ stand-in captain Franco Mostert. Mostert last season in a Springbok jersey was hit and miss but he has been a key player for the Lions this season and Erasmus might decide to reward him with a call-up. The 27-year-old Mostert also provides Erasmus with captaincy options, as he is leading the Lions team in the absence of regular skipper Warren Whiteley. Erasmus, without regular skippers Etzebeth and Whiteley, indicated that he might be forced into giving someone new the chance to lead the team in the absence of the injured duo. “The away game against Wales in Washington and the first Test against England just a week later in Johannesburg mean we will have some interesting challenges to overcome, but we have planned for this and there will be no excuses,” Erasmus said. This could will open the door for a player like Siya Kolisi, who many believe should have been handed the captain’s armband ahead of Etzebeth in last year’s Rugby Championship. Kolisi, despite not having a good season in Super Rugby, is the Springbok vice-captain and many will expect Erasmus to pick him to lead the team in Washington and against England. Erasmus will announce the team on Saturday, with the team jetting off to Washington after that. The Boks will take on Wales in an once-off match, before welcoming Eddie Jones’s England side in a three-match series at home, with Joburg, Bloemfontein and Cape Town the host cities. -EZEKIEL KEKANA|ezekielk@afrotone.co.za