A SUSPECT, 28, will appear in the Krugersdorp Magistrate’s Court this week, for the murder of a 16-year-old teenager, who was stabbed to death while attempting to reason with angry land invaders who were trying to burn down the Thuto Lefa High School in Munsieville Ext 9, west of Johannesburg, on Friday. Krugersdorp SAPS spokesperson Sgt Tshepiso Mashele said: “Krugersdorp SAPS were called to a crime scene at Munsieville. On arrival, they found a male lying on the ground with a stab wound to the chest. He was certified dead at the scene by the paramedics. His friend was also stabbed and transported to the hospital for medical treatment.” She said a suspect who was traced and arrested would appear in the Krugersdorp Magistrate’s Court soon on charges of murder. The Mogale city municipality said a group of residents calling themselves the Top Ten in Pangoville informal settlement, which is led by DA youth leader Lucas Jovies Mohlobodi, invaded private land owned by a black woman in construction entrepreneur, Rakgadi Tladi and the adjacent government land, the site of the new Munsieville Ext 9. Mogale City mayor Naga Lipudi said: “The action is made most bizarre by the fact that the DA pronouncements on land reform do not accord with this action led by its youth leader, who also doubles as the DA deputy chairperson for Ward 25.” Mohlobodi defended himself and said negotiations with the municipality and the provincial government had yielded no results. “ANC treasurer-general Paul Mashatile last year said Pangoville would never be formalised ‘because where we are is too rocky, therefore they will build houses in Ext 9’,” Mohlobodi said. “It’s been long overdue negotiating service delivery and we have records to prove this. What needs to be done at this stage is to relocate people to Ext 9, then formal houses will follow.” However, the municipality has warned that it will not tolerate land invasions. “We will not negotiate our mandate away in order to gain popularity. We have people’s property entrusted to us and we will not hand authority over public assets to people because they speak too loudly or can burn more tyres than others. “The SAPS must crack the whip and those who mislead the community must take responsibility for their actions,” Lipudi said. He said there had been a quick response by the Red Ants and police in removing the shacks built on the land. Sporadic road barricading then ensued, followed by the burning of a municipal truck. The community of Munsieville held a meeting at the weekend where it was agreed that land invasions would not be allowed. -NTOMBI NKOSI|ntombin@afrotone.co.za