THE South African film and television industry continues to be patriarchal, a report from women’s group Sisters Working in Film and Television (Swift) has found. This is despite women in the workplace having greater access and visibility in recent years. This, according to the report, did not necessarily translate to equal occupation, security and accommodation between men and women in the industry. “The film and TV industry is an insecure environment for women, not conducive to their equal and full potential contributions,” the report said. Co-authored by Lebohang Ntoele and Monique Atouguia, the report reveals the nature of harassment and rape culture in the film and television industry is most striking in the respondents’ testimonials. According to the response given by the participants, many women admitted to experiencing “lingering and leering” stares from male co-workers and generally being regarded as less knowledgeable and capable. The women said they were routinely seen as sexual objects before colleagues or professionals. “According to testimonials given by the respondents, this can manifest in a number of ways, one of the most common of which was the policing of how women dress in the workplace. Despite the absence of a dress code in most contracts, respondents explain the constant policing by male colleagues regarding how they should present at work. Most commonly cited were comments directed at women to wear tighter, more revealing clothes, high heels, make-up and otherwise feminine-gendered clothing,” the report said. “Many respondents wrote that they were discouraged from being assertive, one respondent quoting a male colleague who told her that assertiveness was only “attractive in the bedroom” while other respondents had physically been removed or had their mouths shut by male colleagues when speaking. A great number of respondents wrote that they were routinely referred to by unprofessional and patronising names such as ‘princess’, ‘honey’, ‘sweetie’, ‘baby’.” Many respondents said sexual advances by male colleagues were normal in the workplace, despite their expressed disinterest. Last month filmmaker Khalo Matabane was accused by at least half a dozen women of sexual misconduct. Although he denied the claims, women came forward detailing their stories about the alleged harassment by Matabane. Two women have accused him of rape. Earlier this month Swift launched a hashtag, #ThatsNotOkay, to address the sexual abuse that women endure in the industry. -LILLIAN SELAPISA|lillians@thenewage.co.za