THE two Gauteng municipalities that have made investments in the embattled VBS Mutual Bank have welcomed the implementation of forensic investigation. The West Rand district municipality has R81m invested with VBS Mutual Bank while the Merafong local municipality has R50m invested. Spokespersons for both authorities, Clement Mohlala and Sammy Mosia, respectively confirmed to Afro Voice yesterday they would adhere to all stages of the investigation. The Gauteng provincial treasury said it would implement a forensic investigation into the circumstances surrounding investments made by the two municipalities with the bank. The treasury said the aim was to determine whether these investments breached the Municipal Finance Management Act and whether any official should be charged with misconduct as a result of these investments. “This decision follows confirmation from the municipalities involved that they do not have the capacity to comply with an instruction from the national treasury made at a meeting on March 22 this year, to investigate and report on the circumstances surrounding their investments,” treasury spokesperson, John Sukazi said. “The terms of reference of the investigation include the amounts invested in the bank since 2014, how such decisions were reached, which officials signed off on the decisions, whether any official received any commission or other incentive for facilitating the investment.” He said the department will also investigate what reports, if any, were submitted to other levels of government detailing these investments and what remedial action was taken after National Treasury informed municipalities in August last year that mutual banks did not meet investment requirements. VBS Mutual Bank was placed under curatorship by the finance minister on March 11, this year. As a result, these municipalities cannot access invested funds for their intended purpose. Sukazi said Section 7(3) of the Municipal Finance Management Act allows municipalities to open accounts with commercial banks. Treasury regulations promulgated in 2005 set out the statutory parameters and vehicles, which can be used for investments by municipalities. “These regulations do not specifically forbid investments in mutual banks, however national treasury indicated to municipalities in August last year that mutual banks do not meet investment requirements,” Sukazi said. ntombin@afrotone.co.za -NTOMBI NKOSI