Government institutions and corporates are always scrambling to assist their authorities against the misuse of social media in the workplace. Since the emergence of technology and the many advances technology has brought to individuals, employees and other stakeholders, online behaviour and mismanagement of this resource has landed many employees and even senior managers in hot water. It is easy for an employee to bring his or her organisation into disrepute on social media, often with dire consequences. It was against this backdrop that Afro Voice recently tagged along to the launch of Take A Girl Child to Work, where the 12 Miss South Africa hopefuls and pupils from various high schools in Gauteng were given a stern and firm lessons about the permanent damages of using social media irresponsibly. Speaking at the launch of the 16th annual Take A Girl Child To Work, social media expert Emma Sadleir said a single reckless social media post may get them in trouble even if its 14 years later. “In the digital age your reputation can be ruined at the click of a button,” she said. “Once content has escaped your clutches and gone viral it is very difficult to undo the damage,” she said. The expert said the stuff people create about others or film may damage their reputations if they do not act accordingly in public. Sadleir made reference to Vicki Momberg who was recently sentenced to three years in prison for a video that went viral on social media where she used the K word 48 times. She also made mention of socialite Joyce Molamu, who was found guilty of crimen injuria for defaming media personality Uyanda Mbuli by exposing her personal number on Facebook after she accused her of having an affair with her boyfriend. “What is most interesting is the extent f how this is going to impact her career because this is somebody who was studying law. Now when you want to become admitted as an attorney or advocate you have to prove that you are fit and proper, and she now has a criminal sentence,” she said adding: “I am glad that Momberg received the punishment that she did because we don’t realise that on social media once you put out something it will come back to bite you in future.” She said: “There’s nothing wrong with exercising your rights such as freedom of expression but once your right degrades someone else it’s a problem that many should shy away from.” The social media expert who is also a co-author of her new book Selfies, Sexts and Smartphones: A Teenagers Online Survival Guide, gave much needed lessons not only to teenage girls who will be participating in the campaign but also to professionals who have been warned to tread carefully on social media for the sake of their jobs and dignity. Touching on various issues that needed to be paid attention to when putting out content on social media pages, the author said being in a bad state of mind may lead one to be a hazard to themselves by posting irreversible content due to a certain mental state they are in. “You need to put checks in place to ensure you give yourself a moment to think” before posting something. If you are about to send, post or create something and you get that funny anxious jump-in-the-tummy feeling then you should not post, send or create whatever it was that you were planning. In her book, Sadleir adds that: “If you are hungry, tired, angry, drunk or simply not feeling yourself, do not create any digital content. “One of the methods that the social expert’s encourages social media active users to explore is for them to imagine that whatever they are posting will be put up on billboards where everyone parents, paedophiles, school principals and the police can see it. “A safe way to use social media responsibly, imagine that whatever you are about to post will be put up on major city billboards, if it cannot be advertised on billboards it is a clear indication that it should not be shared or posted,” she said. The lessons that Sadleir dropped are set to equip young people to make responsible decisions when it comes to social media. The whole room at Parkmore, Johannesburg, at the event agreed that the lessons were valuable and were important to survive the social media-engulfed life. -NONTOKOZO GXUMISA  nontokozog@afrotone.co.za