THE ANC led by Cyril Ramaphosa is poised to be the biggest vote catcher in the coming national elections, while the opposition DA is reeling from selfinflicted wounds. The results of a survey which are to be released in July also found that the DA has dropped at least 2% of the 22.23% voter support it polled in 2014. “The DA’s support is down to 20%. Of course there is roughly a year left before the election and many things can still happen,” director and political analyst at Ipsos Mari Harris said yesterday. “What we are picking up is that voters are adopting a wait and see attitude towards the DA. The loss in support therefore doesn’t necessarily mean that those voters will move elsewhere,” Harris said. Ramaphosa’s impact on voters has been established in the first ever mobile pulse survey done last week by Ipsos. “President Cyril Ramaphosa will probably be the single biggest vote winner for the ANC in next year’s general election . “This view is based on findings from Ipsos’ first ever mobile pulse poll which found that 82% of registered voters who have access to cellphones approve of Ramaphosa’s running of the ANC,” Harris said. She said GeoPoll, the leading provider of mobile data collection in Africa, had implemented the Ipsos study and had interviewed 750 randomly selected registered voters in SA. “At least 92% of South Africans have access to mobile phones, thus collecting data via cellphones as close as possible to the completion of the President’s first 100 days in office was essential.” There were signs that Ramaphosa’s so-called “new dawn” was having positive effects as almost two thirds (63%) of voters believed the country was going in the right direction since he became president, while 9% think the country is going in the wrong direction. “However, the president has his work cut out for him, as about three in every 10 voters (28%) are withholding their judgment and saying that they are unsure.” The newest findings are in stark contrast to a November 2017 national pulse of the people survey which found that two-thirds of South Africans indicated that they believe the country was going in the wrong direction. In the November survey, Ramaphosa received a rating of 6.07 out of 10 in the pulse study. This question was repeated in the Ipsos mobile pulse. It asked: “Just judging on the last few months (since mid-February) how many points out of 10 will you give Cyril Ramaphosa?” “The president’s approval rating is 6.7 out of 10. He is definitely benefiting from being more prominent in the public eye.” -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN|news@afrotone.co.za