THE ASSASSINATIONS of the CradockFour and the death in custody of trade unionist Dr Neil Aggett are among the 15 cases identified as priority matters for further investigation by the National Prosecuting Authority. The Cradock Four were Eastern Cape activists who were stopped by security police in 1985 at a roadblock near Port Elizabeth. They did not know that two members of their group – Matthew Goniwe and Fort Calata – had been targeted for assassination. Goniwe, Calata, Sparrow Mkonto and Sicelo Mhlauli were not seen alive again. Aggett was a young South African doctor and trade union organiser who died in detention under suspicious circumstances after being arrested by the security police. NPA director Shaun Abrahams at a media briefing yesterday, said these 15 cases were among those cases that the TRC had recommended should be fully investigated. Abrahams also said that the three former security police officers who were found to have been involved in the death of Ahmed Timol, who died after being held in police detention in 1971, would also be prosecuted. “I was briefed yesterday on this very matter. The investigating officer has been sick for the last two weeks. There are challenges but decisions will be made once the investigation has been completed,” Abrahams said yesterday. He was speaking at a media briefing held by Justice Minister Michael Masutha before he delivered his budget in the National Assembly. Masutha said: “Beyond the matters we’ve alluded to, we’ve agreed with the NDP that some of matters have been relegated to cold case status.” “These case files needed to be dusted off,” he said. “We need to see what else can be done to ensure that ultimately justice is done.” He also said his department was rolling out significant legislation to ensure that all laws were within the letter and spirit of the Constitution. In this regard, the Renaissance Project was being developed to produce a new body of law that would bring the SA legal system in line with the values of the Constitution. Masutha named the Prevention and Combating of Hate Crimes and Hate Speech Bill, which was brought to Parliament last month, as an example. “It aims to define and criminalise conduct amounting to hate crimes and hate speech. “These crimes have for a long time divided our country. In the age of social media, offensive remarks and other forms of communications, travel fast and wide and can be severely injurious to the national well-being.” On transformation of the judiciary, Masutha said that 66% of SA’S 253 judges were black, with 34% of them women. news@afrotone.co.za -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN