DESPITE problems such as political killings and divisions, the ANC wants the KwaZulu-Natal provincial conference to go ahead before the end of this month. The party’s national executive member (NEC), Dr David Masondo, said in order to heal the divisions and deal with all the problems the party is facing in the province, there has to be an elected provincial leadership. Masondo, who is the party’s deployee in KZN, said this on the sidelines of the Musa Dladla regional conference yesterday. \ He said while they insisted on having the conference which has faced resistance from one of the two factions in the province, it doesn’t mean they will sweep all the problems under the carpet. “We are working with the provincial task team to convene the provincial conference in line with the resolution of the NEC. We are confident that the conference will go ahead,” Masondo said. The uncertainty around the conference was further put in doubt last week when the party lost two members who were killed by people who are still at large. The first member to be killed was Sifiso Cele, a member of the party from the volatile Lower South Coast region. While still reeling from that shock, the party lost another member on Friday when Musa Mchunu, a prominent member of the party in the Moses Mabhida region, was gunned down. Mchunu shot to prominence when he last month led a group of disgruntled members who stormed an ANC senior leadership meeting in Howick. The two regions, together with the Harry Gwala region, has been named by the party as problematic regions who may not convene their regional conferences due to their instability problems. Despite this, Masondo insisted that the conference is needed to take over from the provincial task team. “We are committed to making sure that the conference sits so that the province has leadership to unite the province,” Masondo said. Meanwhile, all the four regions who were sitting this weekend sat without any major incidents. In the eMahleni region, the branches elected Ntuthuko Mahlaba as the new chair. In the Far North region, Bethuel Mthethwa retained his position as regional chair. This was while in the Musa Dladla region, Mduduzi Mhlongo, the current mayor of the city of Mhlathuze, took over unopposed from Nonhle Mkhulisi. Mhlongo will be deputised by Thembeka Mchunu, the wife of former premier, Senzo Mchunu. The major upset for the other faction in the province was when they lost the Inkosi Bhambatha region to a pro-Sihle Zikalala group. The regional chairmanship was won by Lucky Moloi, the husband of the province’s MEC for sport and recreation, Bongi Sithole-Moloi. Moloi defeated Jomo Sibiya, one of the chief lobbyists for Cyril Ramaphosa in KZN ahead of last year’s conference at Nasrec. –SIHLE MAVUSO|sihlem@afrotone.co.za