The Western Cape High Court in Cape Town has on Tuesday granted Patricia De Lille interim relief to return as the Mayor of Cape Town. Judge Pat Gamble also ruled that her membership termination be suspended. However, the full case will be heard on May 25. Last week, the high court reserved judgment in De Lille’s battle to retain her mayoral position. Judgment to be delivered in the Western Cape High Court tomorrow pic.twitter.com/JO5OfLmr95 — Patricia de Lille (@PatriciaDeLille) May 14, 2018  The embattled Cape Town mayor took the DA to court following its Federal Executives’ announcement last week that her membership from the party has been ceased. Patricia de Lille was reluctant yesterday to speculate on what her chances were of getting a judgment in her favour against the DA today. “I don’t want to prejudge the courts. The courts are there to resolve disputes between parties. It’s not like in the old days when one was assumed to be guilty if one was accused of something.” De Lille is accused of repeatedly breaching the Code of Conduct for Councillors as well as the Constitution of the DA, for bringing the party into disrepute, as well as breaching the conditions of her suspension. The party is using section 3.5.1.2 of its constitution to get rid of De Lille citing that she had made public declarations about her intention to resign from the party, which is against party rules. Meanwhile, more DA members are facing expulsion for ‘ganging up’ against the DA with other political parties and demonstrating support to De Lille outside the Western Cape High Court. Western Cape leader Bonginkosi Madikizela said that it was against DA constitution for “members of the party who mobilise members of other political parties to mobile against their own party, they face cessation of their membership,” he said. Meanwhile, the DA has also slammed De Lille for her comments about two members of the Cape Town mayoral committee, JP Smith and Xanthea Limberg. De Lille told a Cape Town morning newspaper that reports about an SMS she had allegedly sent to Limberg to influence the appointment of former city manager Achmat Ebrahim emanated “from under the pillowcase”. “However, these comments were in line with De Lille’s modus operandi of bullying and trying to discredit anyone who will expose her for what she has done,” the deputy chairperson of the DA federal council, Natasha Mazzone, said in a statement. Basil Shiluvame with additional reporting by Dennis Cruywagen