South African Social Security Agency (SASSA) employees, the majority of whom are affiliated to the Public Servants Association (PSA) will be embarking on a strike from Friday next week. This comes after unions in the sector failed to reach a salary agreement with the employer. The strike is set to cripple the agency which has been limping from one administrative bungle to another. Sassa is currently phasing out an illegal contract with Cash Paymaster Services(CPS) which will expire in August after it was extended by the Constitutional Court for a second time earlier this year. PSA General Manager, Ivan Fredericks said the union tabled a wage demand on behalf of its members in February but SASSA failed to table any counteroffer. Fredericks said in terms of the Constitution of the SASSA National Bargaining Forum (SNBF), if parties do not conclude a collective agreement within 30 days of the matter being tabled, any party may declare a dispute. “As a result of SASSA’s failure to address its employees’ salary demand, the PSA had no option but to file a dispute at the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration. Conciliation failed and a certificate of non-resolution was issued on 23 April 2018. “Following a balloting process, the PSA was mandated by its members in SASSA to proceed with strike action,” Fredericks said in a statement. Fredericks said they are aware that the strike will affect the most vulnerable members of society, hence their decision to delay serving a strike notice in order to afford Sassa an opportunity to table its offer. He said the union has tried on numerous occasions to have a meeting with the Minister of Social Development Susan Shabangu to address Sassa’s failure to conclude wage negotiations. “The PSA further repeatedly warned SASSA that its conduct and attitude will impact negatively on service delivery and labour peace. “The unnecessary delaying tactics by SASSA have, however, left the PSA with no option than to serve its notice and mobilise members,” He said. Attempts to get a comment from Sassa Spokesperson Paseka Letsatsi on contingency plans to be taken by the agency were unsuccessful. -AfroVoice Reporter