SOUTH Africa has made a significant contribution to advancements in the fight against HIV and tuberculosis (TB) through research. This is according to Prof Ian Sanne, lead researcher, head and principal investigator at the Clinical HIV Research Unit, a division of the Wits Health Consortium. “South Africa is leading the world’s response to the HIV epidemic with major research projects in the prevention, treatment and care of people living with HIV-Aids and TB, leading to breakthroughs and new treatments,” Sanne said in a statement. The country has a high rate of HIV infections with an estimated 7.1 million people living with the virus. Clinical trials have led to the registration of 30 lifesaving HIV medicines and 95% reduction in mortality among other achievements. Prof Sanne’s comments came as Monday marked World Clinical Trials Day and as the country grapples with a high burden of TB, including drug-resistant TB (DRTB) “We have also seen research successes in SA to prevent tuberculosis and treat drug-resistant TB. Three TB medicines, as well as a one-month drug regimen that prevents TB among household contacts and those at high risk, were recently registered in SA,” Sanne said in a statement. The HIV clinical trials underway in South Africa include the HVTN 702 vaccine efficacy trial and the HVTN 705 study among others in the quest to find a vaccine. “The measurement of successful research is the impact on the disease. South Africa’s track record here is internationally regarded with many trials resulting in cures and reductions in the disease burden,” he said. Sanne said the country had acclaimed academic and research institutions, an
efficient national laboratory infrastructure and a strong regulatory environment. “This ensures that our clinical trials adhere to international best practice in terms of ethics and good clinical research practice. It also positions South Africa at the centre of research efforts into infectious diseases and finding solutions to the world’s public health priorities of HIV-Aids, TB and malaria.” South Africa’s research capabilities have not only contributed to the fight against HIV-Aids and TB, it has also caught the attention of the international community. Last year, leading HIV researcher Prof Glenda Gray made it in the list of Times Magazine’s 100 most influential people as a result of her work and research in the HIV-Aids field. Gray is a lead researcher in the HVTN 702 vaccine study, the largest study of its kind to be conducted in South Africa. The HVTN 702 is the only HIV vaccine efficacy trial in the world in almost 10 years since a similar study undertaken in Thailand. leratod@afrotone.co.za