The Portfolio Committee on Basic Education has praised the police for the swift arrest of the suspected murderer of two schoolgirls in Vryburg, North West. The committee said it was saddened and outraged by the murder of two Stella High School students Sharnelle Hough, 16 and her friend, Marna Engelbrecht, 17 who were found hanged inside a school hostel they had slept in at the weekend. According to reports, a matron at the school discovered the body of a 17-year old girl hanging on the school’s hostel staircase. The 16-year-old’s body was discovered by the police in the hostel’s bathroom allegedly with a piece of string on the neck after being called to the scene. 19-year old Zander Bylsma, a former pupil at the school and a resident of Stella also said to be a former boyfriend of Sharnelle, was arrested for both murderers and made his first court appearance yesterday. The accused will remain behind bars until his next court appearance on 6 August. Committee Chairperson Nomalungelo Gina said the gruesome manner in which the young women were killed was shocking, and that young men were not thinking that this was a way to address challenges. “We need to ensure that justice is served speedily. This will send the correct message that criminality and cowardly acts will not be tolerated,” Gina said. Gina also appealed for calm following the death of a nine-year-old Sadia Suckraj, who died in hospital after she was shot during an attempted hijacking of her father’s car in Chatsworth, KwaZulu Natal on Monday. Police had to use rubber bullets and stun grenades to disperse angry community members who were protesting following Suckraj’s death. “The committee sends its condolences to all the families, friends and neighbours affected by both tragedies. Our thoughts are with you during this difficult time. In both cases, young girls are being robbed of their lives through senseless acts of violence.” said Gina. Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga has also described the killing as a senseless
human tragedy. “It is deeply concerning that our young girls are dying in this manner. This is truly a tragedy and shows as a society we need to work with our young boys to better equip them to effectively deal with relationship dynamics. “We have seen far too many of our young women killed at the hands of their boyfriends, or ex-boyfriends. It is shocking and deeply disturbing.” -AfroVoice Reporter