DE BEERS is taking giant steps in working with businesses in the mining towns of Musina in Limpopo, Kroonstad in the Free State and Kimberley in the Northern Cape, awarding almost R200m worth of contracts to blackowned enterprises, with the majority of these contracts to be in place over the next three years. The development programme is driven with the aim of providing a sustainable link between local enterprises and De Beers’ supply chain to create consistent and reliable business opportunities for local enterprises. Through the De Beers-Zimele initiative, Voorspoed mine has committed to provide developmental funding, training and mentoring support across a broad spectrum of businesses and industries. Among the beneficiaries of this programme is Tripple Man Electrical, a 100% black youth-owned company based in Kroonstad. Tripple Man Electrical successfully completed the Voorspoed Mine incubation programme and graduated to the supplier development programme after successfully bidding for the tender at Voorspoed mine. “To date, our company has been upgraded by the Construction Industry Development Board from grade 1 to grade 2 level which will assist us to get work with higher project values,” Paul Tsheole, managing director of Tripple Man, said. The sluggish economic performance in South Africa and lack of job opportunities has increased the importance of developing small, medium and micro enterprises (SMME’s). Training and skills upgrade is also crucial in the fight against the scourges of high unemployment and poverty. Over the past years, De Beers has increased its enterprise development efforts in line with its commitment to social and labour plans entered into with hosting communities. Ikefree Projects is a construction, general maintenance and civil services company based near De Beers Venetia mine in Musina. The company has benefitted greatly from De Beers’ assistance enterprise development and supply assistance – ensuring that 16 staff members continue to receive employment. “Through the mentorship programme we have learnt that entrepreneurship is not a status but rather a responsibility. We have learnt the importance of professionalism. “Today we have a fully functional company that operates both in the mine and in the community”, according to Semata Sewele, founder of Alelale Holdings. In 2017 De Beers took a giant leap of faith by awarding a security contract to a local company, ending years of international security companies safeguarding its premises and products. Lesedi Security Services, which now manages Venetia mines’ security, received mentorship and a loan from De Beers to improve its capacity and capability to deliver services of international standard. Since then, the business has been growing from strength to strength and today they have successfully trained and employed 74 security guards. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@afrotone.co.za