As someone who has worked with some of the country’s most famous names, including Minnie Dlamini, Thando Thabethe and now with Chris Jaftha, public relations giant Jarred
Doyle is perfectly placed to advise some of the country’s upcoming stars on exactly what to do in order to get their feet in the door and pay the bills. Revealing his top tips to getting famous, he said: “Believe it or not but the old saying, ‘be yourself’, is the truth to fame. You are unique and understanding who you are and what you have to offer will distinguish you from the rest.” What’s the best way to manage the pressures of fame in order to ensure longevity? Fame is indeed lots of pressure, you have to have a goal and implement a strategy to attain the goal. Don’t just say “yes” to every project or brand opportunity that comes your way. Again, know who you are and what you want, that will help you navigate the shark-infested waters of fame. In this age of social media, many young people are consumed with the idea of becoming famous for being famous. Is this a bad or good idea? Yes, it’s become worse. Anyone can call themselves a blogger or influencer and it hurts the industry, media, and entertainment. But again, when you’re authentic, you will stand out. It’s a good idea when you have a purpose for your fame, it’s bad if fame is all you’re after because it’s basically glitter, not gold. What are the pitfalls of fame and how to avoid them? Internally it can bring out the worst parts of your personality. It brings fake people and substances that can be very harmful to you. You want to work hard, look good and be happy all the time so that comes with unnatural substances (sometimes). You can and should avoid them by having a steady support system, family and very close friends who love you for you. Name big-name stars who serve as good examples for handling fame with grace and humility. DJ Black Coffee and his wife Enhle Mbali are a perfect example locally (and internationally). They have a well-defined plan, individually and as a couple. They can be out there in their respective fields as public figures but know they are coming home to something real. They are skilled in controlling the narrative of their relationship as both family man and woman and as artists. Bigger names internationally would be Ryan Seacrest, he is on every platform (television, radio, online) and as a producer (he owns part of the Kardashians TV brand), he has a number of businesses that make sense to his brand aesthetics, like his suits collection and
skin care products. -TANKISO KOMANE