Zimbabwe goes to the polls in July for its first general election since the departure of Robert Mugabe and the jockeying over who will represent the country’s major political
parties is now in full throttle. Primary elections are internal processes by political parties to allow aspiring candidates to
contest among themselves – with the eventual winner being the one who will represent the
party at national elections. As soon as the political parties announced the primaries in April this year, thousands of candidates submitted their names, with sitting parliamentarians also having to contest
in what the ruling party Zanu-PF said was a “sign of democracy”. However, from the lists that were released by Zanu-PF and the main opposition, Movement
for Democratic Change (MDC), the roster was dominated by men, with women largely staying away. This at a time when there is a huge global drive towards realising the UN-driven Planet 50-50 by 2030 gender equality campaign in public office positions. One female Zanu-PF legislator, hoping to retain her parliamentary seat, complained last month that she was being intimidated by aspiring male candidates, reporting that the men were going around telling prospective voters not to vote for a woman. She eventually lost the election to a male candidate. It was one of many troubling reports concerning women aspiring for public office, with political parties accused of failing to address these concerns. Glanis Changachirere, team leader at the Institute for Young Women Development, which lobbies for women’s participation in political processes, says women seeking public
office are still marginalised by political parties in Zimbabwe and discouraged from participating because of widespread political violence. “It is worrisome that as we enter the second term of the constitutional provision for gender
parity, women’s political representation is under threat,” Changachirere said. “Leads from Zanu-PF primary elections are indicating a regression in women’s representation. Women only constitute 8% of that party’s parliamentary and senatorial candidates. There are examples in some provinces where there was not a single woman elected in the primaries,” she said. The ruling Zan-PF announced the final list of parliamentary candidates on May 3, revealing
that the preliminary results were dominated by men with women who were seeking re-election failing to make the cut. Some of the losers, who again were dominated by men, contested the results in 10 constituencies, citing among other things political violence against their supporters, forcing the party to call for a rerun. “It’s evident that the political space, despite constitutional provisions, is overall not conducive for women and intra-party violence against women is very high,” Changarirere
said. Perhaps highlighting the extent of the odds stacked against women, Oppah Muchinguri, Zanu-PF’s first female national chairperson, who was elevated to the post last year and sought to retain her seat, was one of the big casualties in the primary elections. Under Zimbabwe’s constitution, adopted in 2013, 60 uncontested seats are reserved for
women in the legislature in what is termed proportional representation – where political
parties nominate female candidates based on the number of seats the party won in the
general election. In the 2008 elections, only 34 women made it to the 210-member Parliament, and a decade later political parties are still struggling to make up the numbers that meet their commitment to global standards. In 2013, the number grew to 86 elected female legislators, an increase of 39%, according
to UN statistics. According to Morgan Komichi, the Movement for Democratic Change national chairperson, the party has set aside 50% of parliamentary seats for women, but from the number of women who have expressed interest in actually contesting the primaries, Zimbabwe’s main opposition could well be lagging behind in realising its own gender balance benchmarks. “The patriarchal and primitive thinking of women only playing second fiddle roles, for example, women expected to sing and ululate and provide care work roles in political parties– are still entrenched. “No deliberate mechanisms exists to ensure proportional presentation of women in key
leadership positions and in the government line-up,” Changachirere said. However, political opposition MDC national spokesperson Tabitha Khumalo said that the MDC had ratified the Women’s Charter as set out by Southern African Development
Community (SADC) protocol on gender and development, targeting 50% women’s representation in decision making and already has provisions to allocate gender in the party, but it was up to the women to take up the mantle. “There is a belief that women should be handed political office. They should go out there and work for it. “There are constitutional provisions to meet these standards, my question is who lobbies
who to get those numbers,” according to Khumalo. One-time deputy prime minister and former MDC vice-president Thokozani Khuphe, who
was expelled from the party in March, has since formed her own splinter political party,
accusing rivals of denying her the constitutional right to lead the country’s largest opposition political party. Khuphe accused her rivals of sexism, saying it was clear they did not want a women to lead, vowing that a woman is also constitutionally empowered to lead Zimbabwe. Former deputy president Joice Mujuru, also expelled from Zanu-PF and once considered
by some as former president Robert Mugabe’s successor, now leads the National People’s
Party, with smaller parties led by women such as Lucia Matibenga’s People’s Democratic
Party – and rallying behind Mujuru as the sole female presidential candidate for the July
national elections. – IPS Ignatius Banda is an IPS correspondent