IN Cape Town at the weekend for the grand daddy of finals at the Nedbank Cup, I reconnected with the Hyundai Accent 1.6 GLS Fluid automatic, hoping that it would be a precursor to a date with the hot new Hyundai i20 on Monday. But some things do go awry when unexpected meetings come up, again linking up to potential future happenings after I just returned from the Mother City with a bug from hell. Yet when I landed at EuropCar on Saturday, they gave me a Volkswagen Polo but as much as I love that brand and respect the people of South Africa for making it the People’s Car, I was in no mood to exert myself changing gears especially after a gruelling week at Nampo followed by the visit from Sershen Naidoo, my brother from another delightful mum. Thankfully, they found an automatic, reacquainting me with the Hyundai brand that is richly connected to my DNA. But that is for another day when little Miss Moody memory rides to Umdloti again. Anyway, I got into the Hyundai Accent 1.6 GLS Fluid automatic, loved the funky bright blue colour, engaged in drive and set off for The Cullinan. It was an easy drive, no maps required, so no beef this time with Vodacom, whixh was peeved at my complaint about getting lost using its mobile GPS system, insisting that there was a difference but had no reply to the fact that I was lost in the bundu with a broken connection. They were supposed to clarify why I got lost and why it was not their problem but nothing surfaced at the time of writing so I guess I will have to make that coffee date to be schooled in the art of getting lost without blaming my network provider. Sorry, Vodacom, you going to have to do better than just say it ain’t your fault. Luckily, beautiful Cape Town is easier than the Free State to navigate without assistance, especially in a lovely vehicle. The number of times I have been here in the past two years, it could easily be home. Driving past the colourful new housing development just past the airport, with the mountain at the heart of your journey, this place is amazing. I almost landed a job here but have no regrets turning it down. Until the dream opportunity comes, I will remain a happy frequent flier, even if it gets me smiling at moody blues down Hyundai memory lane. I enjoyed the Hyundai Accent 1.6 GLS Fluid automatic. It was economical, easy to drive and pretty much a great city runabout for someone just needing to get from one place to the Greenpoint Stadium. Again, this served as a timely reminder of how this Hyundai Accent 1.6 GLS Fluid automatic has evolved beautifully from the sedan I first owned in 1997. It has kept pace with the times but has transformed into a gritty customer. The Nedbank Cup was a blast. Pity after breakfast at The Cullinan I never felt the same with a bug from hell. It was my first experience with food poisoning. But what happens in Cape Town stays there. As a result of the mind-willing, body weak scenario, I could not make it to Monday’s launch of the refreshed i20 line-up with a more modern design, and the addition of a 1.4 Active flagship derivative. I hope to drive it soon. But I met with an interesting lady who told me my probable fortune – I could be the king of Cape Town, my coronation is imminent. But the Princess of Suits Meghan Markle is now taken so I laughed it off and savoured the memories my own super M brings, thanks to the Hyundai Accent, which costs R284 900. -EDWIN NAIDU