MAMELODI Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane was content with a point following their 2-2 draw in their second CAF Champions League group stage match against Horoya FC on Tuesday in Guinea. After two rounds of matches, the team remain without a win after also drawing against Waydad Casablanca. But Mosimane knows there is still a lot to play for in the competition and that his side can still progress to the next round. “Actually I’m a little bit unhappy because we were 2-1 up but my centre back left the most important player (Aboubacar Camara) alone at the set pieces,” Mosimane said. “We all know he is the only player who scores with the head and my player let him be. But that’s football.” Horoya took the lead immediately after the interval but Sundowns fought back to equalise through Khama Billiat, playing his last match for the club. Sundowns then took the lead from a penalty spot converted by Gaston Sirino to make it 2-1 and looked on course to collect all three points on the road. But a lack of concentration with less than 10 minutes from time allowed Horoya to equalise and ensure they shared the points. Asked how much he regretted surrendering the lead at the death, Mosimane defended his side by taking solace in them avoiding defeat. “They scored first and we equalised and then we went ahead and they came back, so it was fair. “But I said we would try to win and we did try to win but they equalised. “I also said before the game that if we don’t win, then we should at least not lose. “What I said before the match is exactly what happened. We needed to respect our opponents‚ we needed to be very careful. “Exactly the same players I mentioned before – Ocansey Mandela and Ibrahim Sory Sankhon – and the two midfielders, caused a bit of a problem for us in the first half. “But it was a game of two halves. We woke up very late‚ we were sleeping.” A concern for Mosimane going forward will be his defence, which was sloppy against Barcelona and Horoya. Without the services of Ricardo Nascimento, Mosimane will need to fix this if his side are to go further in the continental competition. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@afrotone.co.za