LITTLE Katlego Joje, 10, whose body was found on Sunday afternoon, was only starting to understand social nuances such as smiling, looking people in the eyes and laughing, when she died. She was autistic. Joje’s uncle Thabiso Storom yesterday said the little girl died before her family could find out what made her laugh. He said the one thing that stuck out about Joje was that she liked singing. “She was extremely musical. If there wasn’t music playing, she would create a beat with her fingers. As much as she could not talk, she could sing, lyrics and everything, like a full song, which was weird,” Storom said. Joje’s body was found on Sunday afternoon in the Moretele River in D2, Mamelodi West, after she went missing on Thursday morning on her way to crèche. The family runs a crèche at home. Joje went missing between home and school, which are barely five steps apart. “We are just trying to piece the puzzle together. Nobody really knows what happened. It could have been a freak accident where she walked off on her own or it could have been a snatching. The police are investigating, we will know in due course,” Storom said. The gate at the house latches twice, at the bottom and the top. Storom said it was highly unlikely that Joje would have wandered off alone. The yard is also secured because of the business they are running. “We will soon find out if it was a freak accident or if something sinister happened,” Storom said. Speaking on the social awareness around autism, Storom said there was much education that needed to be done. “There needs to be education and understanding. When we went out looking for her the questions that we got were strange. We had to do a lot of educating while we were searching for her,” Storom said. Siyabulela Jentile, founder of the Not In My Name movement said they would be marching to the Mamelodi police station today in Katlego’s memory. He said they had a number of demands including that the person who turned the family away twice when they tried to open a case to be fired. Jentile also said they wanted community policing forums in Mamelodi to be resuscitated and those presently in place supported. “The police must also make sure that the Moretele River is constantly patrolled by police,” he said. Community safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane yesterday visited the family and shared the preliminary findings of the post-mortem report. She said she and the family were, however, not happy with what the findings revealed. Nkosi-Malobane also commented on the handling of the matter by the local police, describing it as poor. She said disciplinary action against those who were on shift when Joje’s case was reported is already underway. She said some police officers had already been suspended. The police officers apparently turned he family away two times before. lillians@afrotone.co.za