Communications Minister Nomvula Mokonyane says that cabinet deliberated broadly on issues related to gender-based violence but did not discuss accused parliamentarian Mduduzi manana as an individual. Speaking during a post-cabinet briefing on Thursday, Mokonyane said that the matter of Manana was not discussed as it was not an ‘item’ on the agenda. She said that cabinet did reflect on issues of Gender-Based Violence and the overall reflection was to broadly deal with the matter including areas of victim support and assaults. “But cabinet did not discuss Mduduzi Manana as an individual, but cabinet did reflect on Gender-Based Violence in the Republic of South Africa. And that is the issue that we dealt with, precisely because the item Mduduzi Manana was not necessarily an item but the reflection on Gender-Based Violence was the subject,”  Mokonyane said. However, Mokonyane said that they condemn Manana’s actions and hoped that the law would take its course. “So that then no individual irrespective of standing can actually run away with infliction of pain, humiliation and degradation of the rights of another individual particularly women and other vulnerable groups,” she said. The storm around Manana comes after charges of common assault were laid against him by his former domestic worker, which she later withdrew It is reported that manana offered the worker R100 000 for her to drop the charges. The claims were denied by Manana who accused the woman of demanding the R100 000 from him instead. He also said that he was intending to lay charges of extortion against the workers family which was demanding the money from him. Meanwhile, the ANC Youth League on Thursday called on him to resign from all his position as MP and from the ANC. The youth league also called on the ANC to take action against the former Minister and subject him before a disciplinary hearing. National Assembly Speaker Baleka Mbete on Wednesday announced that she will advise parliament’s ethics committee to probe the accusations against Manana. -Afro Reporter