AT THE 54th national conference of the ANC, delegates resolved, among other issues, to accelerate land reform and rural development as part of the broader programme of radical socioeconomic transformation. This watershed conference further resolved that expropriation of land without compensation “should be among the mechanisms available to government to give effect to land reform and redistribution”. “In determining the mechanisms of implementation, we must ensure that we do not undermine future investment in the economy, or damage agricultural production and food security,” the conference further resolved. In order for South Africa to ensure that land reform and redistribution does not damage the economy in general and food production in particular, we need to work together irrespective of our political and ideological inclinations, to dirty our hands in making sure that the land is shared among those who work it, as espoused in the Freedom Charter. Historically, black women in South Africa endured triple chains of oppression. In addition to facing oppression because of their race and gender, they were also discriminated at their workplace, that is if they had any employment at all. Whilst our democratic government has made progress in fighting against race, gender and class oppressions, black women in general and African women in particular continue to carry the yoke of the triple contradictions of poverty, unemployment and inequality. According to the Poverty Trends Report, released by Stats SA last year, poverty affects women more than men in South Africa, with the most vulnerable being African women in rural areas with little or no education. These are the women who, despite being faced with the task of childcare, are also often expected to feed their families. Last Friday, I had the opportunity to be invited to the launch of Martindale Women in Farming Cooperative, which was established in March this year to empower women, youth and people with disabilities who are engaged in agricultural activities in urban and rural areas. The establishment of the cooperative was supported by the Free State department of agriculture and rural development. Founded by 10 women, the cooperative is involved with fruit and vegetable farming within the Bloemspruit area, situated in the Mangaung metro municipality. I was inspired by the dedication shown by these women in farming, whose work not only contributes to food security and agricultural production, but also enhances economic development. In Sesotho we say: “Mmangwana o tshwara thipa ka bohaleng”, literally meaning that a mother holds the sharpness of the knife – and figuratively meaning that a mother will overcome all obstacles and odds to protect and to take care of her offspring. The founders of Martinadale Women in Farming Cooperative, after realising that their families needed food, took the decision to unite and put food on their tables. I was extremely inspired by the selflessness, dedication and commitment displayed by these women. On behalf of the Free State provincial government, I provided a tractor and other farming implements to assist this cooperative in doing its work. I further instructed the MEC for agriculture and rural development, Benny Malakoane, to ensure that an additional tractor and other farming support is provided to this cooperative. The story of this cooperative is extremely inspiring. In this era, when food security is one of the key items on our developmental agenda, we need such initiatives to multiply. In light of the poverty statistics by StatsSA above, when women, particularly black women, are the most vulnerable to poverty, women have no choice but to unite to save themselves and their families from poverty. Through a programme of radical economic transformation, the provincial government commits to support all efforts aimed to ensure that the patterns of ownership, management and control of the economy are tilted in favour of all South Africans, especially the poor, the majority of whom are African and female. I call on all women to follow in the footsteps of the Martindale Women in Farming and take up their garden forks and dig the land, for it is the women who must hold the sharpness of the knife in our battle against poverty, unemployment and inequality. Sisi Ntombela – Premier of the Free State and deputy president of the ANC Women’s League