As Miss South Africa is about to crown its newest winner later this month, a lot of debate over the relevance of beauty pageants has always dodged even one of the most honourable of all beauty titles over the years. But what really happens to the leading ladies after their year of reign, given their already impressive philanthropic efforts. Afro Voice caught with 2017 runner-up Boipelo Mabe, a soon to be masters graduate from Wits University in international relations, whose impassioned speech about her fear of “generational poverty” and what needs to be done to end this vicious cycle, made her a favourite to win the Miss South SA title. In line with the Miss SA’s beauty with a purpose mission statement, the Alexandra, Johannesburg-born beauty said she would continue to use her windfall to campaign for gender equality and higher educational attainment. Even in the face of the imminent “bittersweet” end of her Miss SA journey ahead of this week’s unveiling of the 12 Miss SA 2018 finalists, she has vowed to work even harder in her respective careers in order to “stay relevant and avoid the risk of being forgotten”. What are you busy with at the moment? I am working as a media relations officer for Cell C. As the headline sponsor for Miss South Africa for the past five years, part of the sponsorship includes the opportunity for the top 12 finalists to work at Cell C in their chosen departments for a year, should they choose. During our time as finalists, we also had the opportunity to meet and engage the mobile communication’s company CEO Jose Dos Santos over breakfast. Some of the topics during this spanned socio-economic issues to women’s issues in society and the workplace. It was from that day that I knew I wanted to be a part of this company. Moreover, having previously worked extensively in the broadcasting space, I saw this as an opportunity to diversify my skills as a communicator. Naturally, I was led to the corporate communications
department at Cell C specialising in media relations, in addition to providing support to the company’s corporate social investment department. The experience has been invaluable and I am empowered every day to learn, grow and produce excellence. As an outgoing Miss SA runner-up, what have you brought to the organisation given its long-standing partnership with Miss SA? I bring the influence and network of my personal brand from my experience of working in the broadcasting and modeling industry. My business savvy and creative mind have helped me contribute to fresh ideas and more relevant ways of doing things. I also bring social media experience as a social media influence. All of these experiences have shown to be invaluable in a corporate communications environment and understanding thereof. Does this mean the beauty pageant days are now behind you? As a competitor, yes, but as a contributor, I believe there is still much to do. The stereotypes surrounding “pageant girls” still weigh heavy and as someone who has benefited greatly from the pageant experience, I want to educate others that we are way past looks only and
that we are well aware of the significant impact we have on those around us, and we are playing our part. I look forward to building a solid career in the communications and media space, as talent and as a businesswoman. Education is also very important to me. After completion of my masters degree in international relations (which I suspended in 2017 to partake in the pageant), an MBA and Ph.D. are definitely on the list. I will continue my work of giving back to my community, Alexandra, and mentoring young people around the country. I am a mogul in the making – watch this space! –TANKISO KOMANE