As Africa Day celebrations kick off, the Liberation Concert celebrating Nelson Mandela’s legacy and protest songs which have been re-imagined anew will also see The Liberation Project album launch. The concert which will feature an ensemble of esteemed music players will take place at The Joburg Theatre on May 25, and will pay tribute to the music and life of Ray Phiri. In the spirit of celebrating African artists, Afro Voice sat down with master kora player, Guinean musician N’Faly Kouyate who is also a member of the Mandinka ethnic group of West Africa. He opened up about the Kora, his international tours and what Africa Day means to him. Q– The first question to you will touch on the instrument you play; the KORA of the Mandinka and is traditionally associated with royalty, the ruling class and or religious practices to accompany narrations and songs in honour of patrons, what drew you to the instrument and when was your first time playing? A: My love for the kora stems from a long tradition of players in my family. I come from a lineage of griots. My great-grandfather and father played the instrument. The role of the griot has always, traditionally been to preserve the genealogies, historical narratives, and oral traditions of their people; praise songs are also part of the griot’s repertoire. My father from an early age was sent by his parents to learn the balafon and later graduated to the kora. So it then came naturally for me to be drawn t the instrument. Q– The Liberation Concert which you’ll be performing at highlights the unifying attributes of music through live performances and will bring together musicians from different parts of the world, in a celebration of liberation struggles from various parts of the world mainly Cuba, Italy and South Africa. As someone from Guinea and now based in Belgium, please allude as to why you agreed to join the project and what can South Africans expect from N’Faly at the concert?  A: Music can do something, which politics cannot do. It unites and contributes positively towards changing the world. For example, I will mention an instance from the many years ago when there were border wars between Mali and Burkina Faso which saw over 300 people get killed. Following a failed attempt at a ceasefire discussion, chaired by Guinea’s Sekou Toure alongside the respective country’s presidents –it was noted that there would be a concert to mark peace between the said countries. Indeed, following a war, music was used as a diplomatic tool and for the first time saw people from opposing forces join hands in an effort for peace. The same thing with South Africa, Cuba, and Italy, music, the world over has been used as a tool for peace and reconciliation. I hope people come to enjoy an eclectic blend of music from different cultures of the world and be enthralled. Q– As an ardent player of your instrument, you have been dubbed ‘The Jimi Hendrix’ of the KORA, you have gone on to win many awards, most recently a 2017 Songlines Music Award including a Grammy nomination with ACCS – what do awards mean to a musician and would you say they are something important for one to carve a niche career in the music industry? A: I have been fortunate that throughout my career, I have been recognised and awarded numerous accolades. However, great as this may be. Awards are not at the centre of what I do, but I believe that they do assist in one getting a greater recognition in the world. By virtue of that, a musician gets introduced to new audiences, which is great for any career. Q– The concert will also be paying tribute to the late Hugh Masekela and Ray Phiri who collaborated and worked with many musicians all over the world, as N’Faly, is there any South African musician you would like to collaborate with? A: I love South Africa. Growing up, as a young child in Guinea, Conakry and being the last born to my father, I spent most of my time with my big sister. I was practically raised by her. I am the same age as her second child. My sister was married to a friend of Ms. Makeba’s. Religiously, every Sundays, we would go to visit our aunt Miriam. At her home, she would teach us songs such as ‘Shosholoza’ which fostered a love and intrigue about SA. Also, two of my uncles Papa Kouyate, a percussionist and Kouyate who played bass, were part of his band. In 2011 I collaborated with Ray Phiri, I enjoyed working with him. While on a visit to Durban a few years ago, I wrote a song ‘ All Unite For Africa’, which was inspired by a sadness following the flow of xenophobic attacks I saw in the city. I did that song with Ladysmith Black Mambazo. I’ve also worked with Mandisa Dlanga, Faith Kekana, and Stella Khumalo. My dream collaboration would be a song with Johnny Clegg. I met him in 2014 and hinted at the idea of working with him – but due to poor health at the time, we couldn’t work together. Guest musicians who will play at the concert include Vusi Mahlasela, Juan de Marcos – the architect of the Buena Vista Social Club, vocalist and percussionist Cyril Neville from New Orleans’ esteemed Neville Brothers and guitarist and producer Phil Manzanera of Roxy Music and Pink Floyd fame. NONTOKOZO GXUMSIA