NURSES have been praised for being the backbone and engine of the healthcare system, however, one nurse says she is more than that. Bakang Motloung, 34, said more was expected from nurses and that they not only performed nursing duties but were expected to go beyond the call of duty. “As a nurse you fit into roles that you were not even trained for because of the nature of social economic conditions in our country and the growing burden of disease, social ills tend spill into the healthcare system,” she said. She was speaking ahead of International Nurses Day to be commemorated tomorrow. The day is commemorated annually on May 12. Motloung said she was expected to wear many hats as a nurse but she would not change a thing. “Most often than not patients will tell you their life problems and expect you to service them and still expect you to be Dr Phil and listen to them and then when you refer them to a psychologist sometimes you sense that they just want to offload on you, that time the queue is so long and you still have to see 40 other patients,” she said. She said social problems such as women abuse often meant that you could not just give women medication and send them home. “Yes you attend to them and they tell you their problem but within the system you have to make sure that you refer them to somebody who is best qualified to help them, you sometimes even counsel people without even realising but then you are like hang on but I’m a nurse and I’m not qualified to do this,” she said. Motloung said that as nurses they were also expected to disseminate information to your community. “In my community I even consult way after hours because they know in that house there is a nurse so the elderly will come and ask for advice on chronic medication and others on immunisation and contraceptives and its my duty to give them information,” she said. She however admitted there were challenges such as working conditions but said the show must go on. The Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa(Denosa) will celebrate nurses at various events across the country. leratod@afrotone.co.za