Facebook has announced a new dedicated youth online safety programme aimed at training 1 000 South African youths between the ages of 13-18 across high schools and youth groups nationwide. Ilizwe Lam (My World) challenges students in understanding how they can stay safe online, provide practical tips and guides, while creating a number of youth ambassadors to provide peer-topeer support. “The internet is a gateway to a world of economic opportunities, educational possibilities, fun and friendships for many young South Africans,” Emilar Gandhi, public policy manager for the SADC region at Facebook, said. “But it is also important for them to learn how to protect their personal information and to safeguard themselves online. “Increasing awareness and ensuring that young people feel empowered is important and something we’re committed to. That is why I’m proud to be launching Ilizwe Lam to form part of the work Facebook is already doing in South Africa.” Qhakaza Mthembu, head of strategy at Facebook, said this will be done in partnership with Digify Africa and the launch of thieprogramme underscores Facebook’s ongoing local commitment to youth safety and education. Created in consultation with youth groups, the dedicated online safety curriculum will feature interactive and engaging learning modules which will provide advice in how to make the most of the opportunities on the internet, while protecting themselves from negative issues such as scams and harassment. The training programme will include modules featuring content such as: • Looking after your digital footprint and managing your privacy online. • What to do when you encounter inappropriate content or behaviour on various social media. • How to decide what you share online. • What to do when you share something online that you regret. • Dealing with cyber-bullying, harassment and scams. • Examples of young digital hustlers furthering their studies and careers by accessing content and making connections online. Qhakaza Mthembu, head of strategy at Digify Africa said: “The digital economy is growing fast in Africa, opening up a world of opportunities for young South Africans to connect with content, other people and create sustainable livelihoods for themselves. “We’re really proud to have co-created this programme with young South Africans, to enable them to safely tap into all the resources of the online universe.” -INDIE BOYCE