IT WAS not the start Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane had hoped for win following their 1-1 draw against Wydad Casablanca in the opening match of the CAF Champions League group stages at Lucas Moripe stadium on Saturday. Mosimane was left disappointed with the result as he feels they should have won the game against the defending champions. Downs made a dream start as they went ahead after just three minutes, when a shot from Khama Billiat was blocked away and the follow-up by Sibusiso Vilakazi was bundled in for an owngoal by Comara before Ismail ElHaddad fired in the equaliser 20 minutes later. “It is important to give respect to our guests. I think they did their best to get a point and they did everything. “But honestly speak- ing, I’m dis- appointed with the result. I’m not disappointed with the game, I’m disappointed with the result because there is no reason why we should not have won this game. “I respect the opponents but tonight we should have won the game.” Knowing what to expect when Sundowns meet Casablanca in Morocco, Mosimane feels they missed an opportunity here as they should have beaten the champions and put pressure on them in the group. “I know what’s going to happen in Morocco they will put pressure and will stress the referee and they will do everything. “That’s what makes me disappointed. We need to kill it, we should have killed it. But we made a crucial mistake. Without that mistake, how were they going to score? They were never there. “I’m not disrespecting them but which chance? If you look at the set pieces there are no issues and diagonal ball to adapt because they are quick and they use the speed and we managed to deal with that. “We got our interplay and our number 10 inside and when we do that, we know everybody will struggle. Whether it is Zamalek or Esperance once we play with our brand they will struggle. “So that makes me disappointed because we had an opportunity. You cannot say we took a point and we played the champions. The game is there on the pitch. “We should have won the game, there is no excuse.” With Horoya winning in the other match in Group C, Mosimane said they will need to go away and win against one of the teams while also winning their home games. “It would have been better if everybody drew. But they have three points. “Of the three away matches, we need to win at least one and two here at home. as 10 points will get you there.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@afrotone.co.za