TAKING Orlando Pirates from an 11th place finish last season to second this campaign, coach Milutin Sredojevic feels they have laid a good foundation to win trophies. Pirates have shown huge improvement under Sredojevic this season after he refreshed the team and he believes that they can only get better and better. Sredojevic, however, doesn’t want to get big headed following their impressive season but promised that trophies will come next campaign. “We have no reason to exaggerate and now boast and talk too much,” Sredojevic said after his side finished the season in style following their 2-1 victory over Free State Stars on Saturday. “This is normal for Orlando Pirates given the magnitude of the club, but I want to say that supporters are feeling that this season we have laid the foundation and that is putting in front of us an important task. “One, to do a deep analysis, who is supposed to come and who will be released. To really have a selection of players that we will continue with the project because now we have the foundation and we need to build the house and those are trophies.” Ntsikelelo Nyauza and Thamsanqa Gabuza scored the goals for Pirates. Sredojevic also believes that his side could have done even better had they turned some of their 10 draws into victories. “I need to tell you the biggest critical aspect is that 15 won matches this season is not enough, we need to win more. We need to turn draws into wins. Out of 10 eight we supposed to have won but football is like that. “I count especially the first round where we had many draws. We are a team with a number of losses five but next year we will be competing on all fronts. “MTN8, Telkom Knockout, Nedbank Cup, league and CAF Champions League. When you have all these, we need to keep up what was okay and fix what was not okay. “Once we make a proper pre-season because I need to make sure. “Preseason is the foundation of the season in front of us, we want to do the best and we want to fullfill our dreams of our supporters.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@afrotone.co.za