WITH Platinum Stars already to be relegated to the National First Division, the focus now turns to those trying to avoid finishing in 15th place, which brings with it a national promotional play-off encounter. Ajax Cape Town are occupying 15th place and are favoured to finish in that position as they meet Kaizer Chiefs in their final match of the season at home on Saturday. With Chiefs also looking to finish third and qualify for the CAF Confederation Cup, Ajax will have to dig deep to beat Amakhosi and hope for favourable results in other matches. A win for Ajax and a draw for SuperSport United against Baroka FC will see the Urban Warriors move above Matsatsantsa a Pitori with equal points but a superior goal difference. One of SuperSport, Baroka and Polokwane City can still finish 15th and participate in the play-offs with the NFD’s Jomo Cosmos and Black Leopards who have already confirmed their places. Ajax are on 31 points, two behind 14th-placed SuperSport United with a negative goal difference of five. United are on a minus six. Matsatsantsa take on Doctor Khumalo’s Baroka, who are on 34 points and Ajax will hope for the Polokwane-based outfit to win or draw. There’s also Polokwane City in the mix and having accumulated just 33 points this season, it could still get ugly for them if they fail to beat Chippa United on the same day. In the case if SuperSport, Ajax and City all win their respective games, then Baroka will slip to 15th for a second successive year of play-offs. If Baroka, Ajax and City all win their games, then SuperSport will end up in the relegation/promotion play-offs. Polokwane City, can only slip down to 15th if they lose to Chippa – and SuperSport and Ajax both win their games. So, in a nutshell, the pressure is very much on Ajax to get a good result against Chiefs while also hoping for other results to go their way. And while SuperSport, Polokwane and Baroka will still monitoring the Ajax v Chiefs game in Cape Town, they still need to play their hearts out to avoid any surprises after the final whistle. Despite the league winner being confirmed with Mamelodi Sundowns clinching the title, there is still a lot to play for on the final day of the PSL. Meanwhile, Baroka FC could be without their top goal scorer Gift Motupa who is still nursing an injury. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@afrotone.co.za