Gauteng MEC for community safety, Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane has urged the police to work around the clock to clamp down on cash-in-transit heists which have become rampant in the province. Nkosi-Malobane met various law enforcement agencies in the province to map out a strategy to prevent further heists and to bring the perpetrators to book. Gauteng has seen a wave of cash-in-transit heists recently, with at least 96 cases reported since last year, with 44 armoured vehicles attacked. Police data shows that 52 heists were carried out on public roads, but there had been slow progress in resolving the cases. Data shows that at least 26 heist criminals have been arrested and 85 suspects remain at large. Several heavy calibre assault weapons, among them AK 47s, were recovered as well as getaway vehicles, police radios, bulletproof vests and a R95m loot. “Criminals are proving to be sophisticated, therefore a collective approach to deal with cash in transit heists is critical,” Nkosi-Malobane said. “It is important that we commit all our resources and engage all the law enforcement agencies in the province to deal with this challenge. “We cannot allow these criminals to walk our streets and instil fear in ordinary citizens,” she said. She said an intelligence-driven approach to clamping down on the heists and the criminals was key. “I have instructed the crime intelligence team to work around the clock to ensure that all suspects linked with the cash in transit heists are arrested and ensure maximum sentences imposed on them. “All law enforcement agencies specialised units must work together to deal with the scourge of cash in transit heists,” she said. Nkosi-Malobane said a collaborative approach was needed. “Collaborate with private security in the fight against the syndicates who continue to supply explosives commonly used to bomb cash vehicles is key. I call upon members of the community who might have information on some of these suspects to report them to the authorities,” she said. The latest incident in Gauteng was reported on Monday morning when a private security officer was shot in the leg in Heuweloord in Centurion. ER24 spokesperson Russel Meiring said when paramedics arrived on the scene in Centurion later they found personnel from another emergency service already attending to a security officer hurt in the incident. “Upon closer inspection, paramedics found that a security officer had sustained a gunshot to his lower leg,” Meiring said. -kutullom@afrotone.co.za