THE announcement by the Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize, that the national Treasury will intervene in some provincial municipalities, has been welcomed by the opposition in the province. The DA’s Cogta provincial spokesperson, James Letuka, said the intervention was a step in the right direction because provincial interventions had, in the past, not been able to improve governance and basic service delivery. His comments come after the auditor-general’s, Kimi Makwetu’s, report released last week on the state of municipalities in the entire country. Makwetu said some municipalities were dysfunctional and needed urgent intervention. Most of the municipalities in the province regressed in their audit opinions, while four received disclaimers and another five are still to have their annual reports audited and published. Makwetu said that the Free State was the worst performing province in South Africa. Irregular expenditure totalled R675m, the net current liability of municipalities stand at R4bn, while unauthorised expenditure totalled R2.9bn. Letuka said in a statement that the DA has been extremely concerned about the situation in municipalities and, as a result, the provincial executive committee appointed an adhoc committee to investigate the situation and the reasons for these failures. He said some of the key responsibilities of the municipalities were to ensure good governance for effective use of public resources and created conditions for investment, economic growth, job creation and elimination of poverty. Letuka said: “Where a state of collapse is threatening, we will request a provincial intervention by the MEC of Cogta in terms of Section 139 of the Constitution.” The provincial Cogta department, however, said based on the presentation and deliberations, Cogta, the Treasury and Salga were mandated to come up with a turnaround plan to address finance, service delivery and governance issues in municipalities. “We acknowledge that accountability is a critical component of ensuring good governance. “We have observed that where there’s good governance there’s also service delivery. We note the concerns raised by Agsa regarding the municipalities that have regressed,” Ntai Mokhitli, departmental spokesperson, said. -MICHAEL TLHAKUDI|michaelt@afrotone.co.za