AFTER going through emotional turmoil following the loss of her big sister, Lulu Dikana, sultry singer Zonke Dikana has decided to step back into the limelight with a positive frame of mind. The result is her new love-themed album, L.O.VE, which stands for Living Out Various Emotions. L.O.VE comes just more than three years since the Port Elizabeth-born award-winning singer-songwriter’s last album, Work of Heart, which contained Meet Me in My Dreams, a song she wrote and dedicated to her sister. Even though, Work of Heart was nominated in two categories at the 15th Metro FM Music Awards and four categories at the 22nd South African Music Awards – winning one award– the pain of losing Lulu was too soon to put aside and continue as normal. So she took a bit of time to fully recover before making a happy new offering. It has been almost three years since your last album, Work of Heart. Tell us about the theme and inspiration behind your new album, L.O.V.E. The inspiration behind the album is happiness, making the decision to be happy and letting go of all the baggage I felt had been weighing me down. I found myself gravitating towards love as the theme as love and happiness go hand in hand. How/why did you decide to name the album Living Out Various Emotions? I found myself feeling a different emotion while writing each song on the album but overall it was love in a light-hearted way, so I thought, why not tell it like it is? Did you have to step back for a bit to reflect before working on this album? Actually I had already started writing songs as I do almost every day of my life. I think the day I made the decision to just be joyful, that’s when I allowed myself to feel things other than pain. It really was an easy process that I didn’t fight at all. One of the songs is Tonight. Tell us about the inspiration behind it? Wanting to be present in the moment was my inspiration for Tonight, taking the moment all in as if there is no tomorrow. I feel we need that in love, whether it’s love for your kids, parents, siblings, a man or woman – appreciate every blessed moment. The song has a strong bass-line that drives you to move while full of heart. The feedback on your return and following the release of Tonight on social media has been extremely positive. How do you feel about the level of love you receive from fans? Every time I put a song/album out I’m always amazed and humbled by how people receive it, it’s as if they subconsciously await my “return” and that pushes me to want to give the very best of me always. The love this single is receiving is incredible, I’m so happy. What have you learnt about yourself since the death of your sister and what comforts you and keeps you going following the loss? I definitely learned that I was much stronger than I thought and what keeps me going are her words that I always quote to my family members. Lulu and I have comforted each other a lot during the loss of our parents and oldest sister, so her words still ring in my head and I’m able to deal with her not being here. Besides music, what are some of the things that are close to you? The well-being of children in South Africa/Africa is of great importance to me. I’m trying to put together something that can make a difference in the lives of those I can reach. Hopefully in a year or two this will become more than just dream. -SIYABONGA SITHOLE|siyabongas@afrotone.co.za