Residents of kwaMaphumulo and neighbouring KwaDukuza communities are overjoyed at the completion of three bridges linking them to basic amenities while granting access to schools for pupils. For years the communities have been living under the stressful conditions of not being able to safely cross the crocodile-infested uThukela River. Pupils from Nyakana, Mabhobhane and Mvumase settlements had to swim across the muddy river every day to get to school on time. The risk of drowning and other dangers meant that most eventually had to drop out of school. Amos Dludla, 65, used his boat over the years to help pupils cross safely every morning from Mankenganeni to Emdlebeni. Dingakele Seme, a Grade 9 pupil at Nyakane Combined School in KwaDukuza said the bridge had enabled him to arrive at school on time. “Before the construction of the bridge, the only way to cross the river was by using a boat. It was a difficult time for our community as most people relied on this wooden boat which would sometimes arrive late and this resulted in us missing important classes. That is now
a thing of the past, thanks to the department. We get to school on time and we don’t miss out on any classes,” Seme said. At least 13 pupils have drowned while swimming to Nyakana Combined School in KwaDukuza. Principal Philani Mathonsi said the deadly swim was made worse by the fact that some of the pupils, close to 1000 registered at the school, were at primary level. “We have young children here who have to swim. In fact, the last pupil who drowned, his body hasn’t been recovered,” Mathonsi said. Transport, community safety and liaison MEC Mxolisi Kaunda said dignity had been restored to the community and their lives were made easier. “The construction of these bridges has also eliminated incidents of drowning. Pupils relayed to me their stories of having to cross the river in freezing conditions when going to school,” Kaunda said. Combined, the bridges cost the department about R230m. The Nyakana Uthukela River Bridge, constructed at R89.5m with a provision for pedestrian crossing, serves pupils and communities from Mankenganeni community on the northern side of the river. It links Umlalazi and KwaDukuza local municipalities. Mabhobhane Uthukela River Bridge links Umlalazi and Maphumulo local municipalities and cost R130.8m and links District Road D1533 to main road P710 and will also provide a much-needed link to the towns of Mandeni and Eshowe. -SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO