DEPUTY President David Mabuza told Parliament yesterday that tuberculosis was the highest cause of death in the country and that the government has set out to reach 80000 citizens for treatment this year. Mabuza said that the government had intervened in North West province to end an untenable situation. “The bottom line is services must be delivered to the people of North West in an efficient manner expected by people from their own government.” Reminded by DA chief whip John Steenhuisen that the situation in the Free State was worse than that in the North West, Mabuza’s response was firm. “We are not going to witch hunt but where there is a collapse of services the government must intervene in the interests of the people.” He spoke out against sugar daddies and blessers, who were exploiting the poverty of young girls and appealed to MPs to assist in fighting the spreading of HIV-Aids. The Deputy President said in reply to a parliamentary question that traditional leaders were the custodians of communal land. There was a belief and conflicting views about this and the government was seeking to end this uncertainty by bringing a Communal Land Tenure Bill to Parliament, Mabuza said. This bill will provide for the transfer of communal land to communities that occupied that land. Communities will also have title deeds for their communal land, residential and business portions. “We encourage that mature engagement continues in a manner that builds our country. “The bottom line is that the land belongs to the people,” he said. On land expropriation without compensation, Mabuza said that the ANC could be trusted. “Definitely our people should have confidence and trust in the ANC. The expropriation of land without compensation as one option to restore land to those people who were deprived or had land taken away from them. It’s going to happen.” It was not only land that was in private hands that would be assessed. “We’ve got land that is under the leadership of the state. “Different departments are holding land. Different municipalities are holding land. That land is going to be expropriated and given to the people and the government is going to assist those people to work the land. That is going to happen.” In all its efforts on settling the land issue, the government will try hard not to disrupt the SA’s productive capacity. On the matter of sugar daddies, the Deputy President said they were fuelling the increase in HIV-Aids infections among young women. “More young girls are being infected. The campaign now is to take awareness to that group, that level of young people who are being abused by older men with money. “The attitude of men must change especially older men “I’m not sure of ourselves here, of how we behave. I’m also calling on you. You must help.” On TB, Mabuza said: “As we stand now we think TB is the highest cause of death in the country. TB is a curable disease.” -DENNIS CRUYWAGE|news@afrotone.co.za