LOCAL singing sensation and the youngest ever winner of Idols SA Season 13, Paxton Fielies, is set to drop her debut album, This Is Me, next month. The news of her impending debut album was preceded by the release of the single, Angifuni, which is available on all digital platforms. The album reportedly features the likes of Kyle Deutsch, Craig Lucas and Tresor, who bring their pop influenced brand into Fielies’s first commercial attempt since her win last year. Speaking to Afro Voice, the Cape Town-born songstress said Angifuni is upbeat and full of attitude and fun. The West African inspired beat and catchy lyrical content confirm the songs ability to become the next pop anthem. The cross-over hit has already been released and is enjoying airplay across the country on national and regional radio stations. “I am so excited to be releasing my first single from my debut album, I hope everyone will enjoy it as much as I have enjoyed creating it. Working on the album has been most difficult yet fulfilling time of my life. “I am honoured that I am able to release an album when many of my peers and other musicians who do not enjoy the kind of opportunities I have been able to enjoy. It is a great and humbling experience for me,” she said. Paxton said she was deeply moved when she performed for queen Silvia of Sweden last month as part of the World’s Children’s Prize. Fielies has been selected as the foundation’s ambassador for its new initiative You Me Equal Rights, aiming at advocating for equal rights for both girl and boy children. Paxton, together with eight other ambassadors, was also awarded the Crystal Globe Award for their participation at the prize ceremony and in advocating for children’s rights. “I had a chance to interact with many young people and hearing their stories really gave me strength and inspired me. Performing for the queen was also an overwhelming experience for me.” She said Angifuni was her favourite song on the album as it best embraces some of the stronger African cultures. “I think Angifuni is the strongest single in the album though I love all the songs in it. The feedback has been greatly positive and I though I would get a bashing instead of support due to the fact that the song is sung in Zulu and is inspired by a strong African music feel,” she said. -SIYABONGA SITHOLEsiyabonga@afrotone.co.za