LAST year award-winning rapper Da Les, real name Leslie Jonathan Mampe Jr, stunned many of his fans when he released two albums, F2D Presents: Hall of Fame 2, which is a compilation album and his solo album High Level. His hard work was acknowledged following the nomination of Hall of Fame 2 at the South African Music Awards (Samas) nominees party at Birchwood Hotel on the East Rand. Hall of Fame 2 received a nod in the best hip hop album category alongside the first female rapper to be in the run for a Sama, Rouge, Shane Eagle, Riky Rick and Emtee. “Recording and releasing two albums did not take much from me as I am always in studio working. Even though it may seem too much work to release two projects in one year, for me that is not the case as I love working,” Da rapper, known for throwing lavish parties, said. The compilation album features local and international artists including, Khuli Chana, Stogie T, Maggz, A-Reece, Tellaman, YoungstaCPT, L-Tido, Beenie Man, Tay Grin and Buffalo Souljah among others. “It is exciting for local hip hop. Everyone is working hard to elevate the standard of local hip hop and I like the vibe I am seeing and all the rappers in the category are really doing so well and expressing themselves differently,” he said. Hall of Fame 2 was launched after his stint in the US, after which he held his 9th annual All White Pool Party at Sandton Sun Deck where he hosted all of Johannesburg’s glitterati and celebrities, including Swizz Beatz and Black Coffee. With the local hip hop scene seeing rapid changes as new, younger players take the shine, Da Les knows that a win will re-cement his place as a veteran on the local hip hop scene. “Being nominated is a great thing on its own and winning a Samas award would still be an honour,” he said. Hall of Fame 2 is a 15-track offering hosted by American radio personality DJ Envy and co-produced by Double D. Asked how he chose the calibre of artists to collaborate with, the man also known as the North God said he likes to keep things organic and share his space with lots of other artists. ”I am always in the studio working and whoever comes over to the studio and when the energy is right we collaborate. I love to keep my collaborations organic and that is how I normally work,” he said. With the Hall of Fame Tour having wound up in the past week, the rapper is now looking to release a series of music videos in what he calls a “six week six music video marathon” to celebrate his more than 10 years in the music business. -SIYABONGA SITHOLE|siyabongas@afrotone.co.za