PETROCHEMICAL giant Sasol is caught up in a tussle with trade union Solidarity over the exclusion of white workers from the company’s employee share ownership plan (Esop), with the union insisting it is wrong for the scheme to favour only blacks. The issue of Esop in black economic empowerment transactions has been a hot potato in the past two decades and the sting in the tail is that whites are now bearing the brunt in a situation hardly seen before. Solidarity registered a dispute with the Commission for Conciliation, Mediation and Arbitration (CCMA) after Sasol introduced empowerment benefits that the union said excludes workers based on race. Last month, BB-BEE commissioner Zodwa Ntuli told Parliament that more and more of the country’s companies continue fronting their employees through questionable trusts just to gain broad-based black economic empowerment (BB-BEE) points. For example, the scandal involving G4S workers back in 2005 when the global security firm opened its branch in SA and promised its workers with at least five years of service that they would benefits from the company’s Esop, but with not a single dividend paid out to date. Sasol has fallen foul of the same practice, with the only difference being that the matter involves white employees as the “victims”. Analysts say that Solidarity might have a case given that during the Sasol Inzalo, blacks and whites benefited from the scheme and questioned the exclusion of white workers from Sasol’s latest Khanyisa empowerment scheme. According to reports, the CCMA ruled that workers at Sasol were allowed to strike over the exclusion of white workers from a employee-shareholding plan. “The commissioner ruled in our favour saying that this is a strikeable dispute,” Deon Reyneke, Solidarity deputy general secretary told Bloomberg. The matter was referred back to the CCMA for conciliation before a certificate allowing permission to hold a strike is awarded, Reyneke said. Sasol said both parties presented their formal arguments before the CCMA senior commissioner and the hearing follows the referral of a dispute by Solidarity to address concerns regarding Phase 2 of the Sasol Khanyisa Esop. “Last Friday, the senior commissioner ruled that the matter be referred for further conciliation. Sasol is now awaiting a date from the CCMA for conciliation discussions. “We remain confident that we have designed the Khanyisa transaction to incorporate what we consider to be the most appropriate and best features of BB-BEE structures in South Africa,” Sasol said. According to Sasol, Phase 2 of the Esop is aimed at specifically advancing the transformation of the South African economy and Sasol, as Khanyisa is an important component of its entire BBBEE strategy. Sasol says it is committed to open and honest engagement with all trade union partners. Observers said Solidarity might have missed the point in terms of previously disadvantaged groups. “The union is representing skilled workers not previously disadvantaged communities,” one commentator said. However, transformation agent Duma Gqubule said that there were no codes that say white people should not benefit from shares, but the reality is that they could not be designated as black. “A firm cannot exclude whites from getting shares and must take it into consideration that they are not part of BEE,” he said. Esop is an employee-owner programme which provides a company’s workforce with an ownership interest in the company. In an Esop, companies provide their employees with stock ownership at no cost to them. In light of previously disadvantaged groups, Esops are emerging as a promising instrument to effect broad-based black economic empowerment in South Africa. The broad-based empowerment framework comprises the seven elements of equity ownership, management, employment equity, skills development, preferential procurement, enterprise development and other residual elements. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za