The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) has strongly criticised the ‘unconstitutional and unparliamentary’ behaviour of National Assembly Deputy Speaker Lechesa Tsenoli during the Presidency’s budget vote on Wednesday. The EFF said Tsenoli’s outrageous conduct was nothing but a pathetic attempt to suppress an important debate and must be condemned in strongest terms. The party has in the past had several disagreements with Parliament’s presiding officers with Tsenoli being on the receiving end of their criticism. On Wednesday, Tsenoli ended up asking EFF MPs to leave the house after a continued interjection when he dealt with party leader Julius Malema who was responding to the Presidency’s budget vote. Malema refused to withdraw his call to South Africans to occupy land wherever they see fit after Tsenoli requested him to stop. EFF spokesperson Mbuyiseni Ndlozi said Section 58 of the Constitution provides members of the National Assembly with freedom of speech in the Assembly and in its committees. “The Constitution further states that members of the National Assembly are not liable to civil or criminal proceedings, arrest, imprisonment or damages for anything that they have said in, produced before or submitted to the Assembly or any of its committees or anything that they have said in, produced before or submitted to the Assembly or any of its committees.” He said Powers, Privileges and Immunities of Parliament and Provincial Legislatures Act 4 of 2004 provides privileges and immunities for members in a joint sitting of the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces as they have before the Assembly or the Council. According to Ndlozi, there was no law or rule which prevented members of Parliament from saying that ministers or deputy ministers were defending corruption, or preventing a call to people to occupy empty land close to their place of work, schools, recreational facilities and places of worship. “It is a point of debate and a matter of difference which if the Deputy Speaker was not a presiding officer and an ordinary member of the National Assembly, would have been free to debate.” Ndlozi said the EFF would be writing to the Rules Committee of the National Assembly to report the Tsenoli’s conduct and call on him to withdraw and resist the temptation in future to behave in such an unconstitutional and unparliamentary manner. “If the Rules Committee fails to appreciate the severity of the Deputy Speaker unbecoming conduct, we will be left with no choice but to approach the court. “We will further table a motion to remove the Deputy Speaker from office by resolution in terms of Section 52(4) of the Constitution. “We cannot allow the National Assembly to degenerate into chaos because presiding officers want to impede with the debates, suppress freedom of speech and make participation of members difficult in the Assembly,” Ndlozi said. -Afro Voice Reporter