THE evolution of veteran singer and songwriter Tshedi Mholo is on the cards at the Joburg Theatre’s Fringe stage when the former Malaika singer takes to the stage. Mholo who grew up in church gospel music has always been a part of her though for a long time she has tried to steer clear of it. “I have had people such as Keith Lister from Sony and Rebecca Malope who asked me to do gospel. But I have always tried to avoid it and now I feel it is the right time for me to embrace my original beginnings of growing up in North West with churches such as Apostolic, ZCC and many other denominations that have influenced me. “I have been called to church services and gospel television shows in the past and before I embarked on my musical project, I decided why don’t I embrace the man above and praise Him?” she told Afro Voice. She said part of the reason she chose gospel was due to her now annual Joburg Theatre event where she tries to do something different each time. “This is my third show at Joburg Theatre and each one of them is themed differently and this time it’s me embracing gospel in what I call music ministry the Tshedi Mholo way,” she said. She said she had enlisted the help of other emerging gospel voices who will be on hand to give music fans the best of local gospel sounds among the clap and tap, contemporary gospel and popular hymns dominating the June 30 performance. “Though I am yet to officially announce the young artists I plan to afford them the opportunity to showcase their talents, I can safely say the line-up will be dominated by the many gospel styles I grew up with back home in North West,” she said. The show will give a glimpse of her versatility as a singer through her music ministry, which she offered to her AME Church in Lichtenburg and Meadowlands, where she had an opportunity to be a founding member and lead singer of award-winning Malaika. “We have to start somewhere and explore other genres in our talent range before going full circle. I have always known that I will end up going back to gospel music. It took me a long time to go back into studio, learning new sounds to be able to evolve,” she said. -SIYABONGA SITHOLE|siyabongas@afrotone.co.za