MANY children still remain vulnerable to abuse, neglect and exploitation despite all the protection provided in law, Cape Town mayor Patricia de Lille said yesterday. Addressing a full council meeting, she said they had to do much more to ensure that children did not suffer abuse. The Bill of Rights in the Constitution, specifically Section 28, states that every child has the right to be protected. “As society we must act when we know of abuse so that we can put perpetrators behind bars. “Unfortunately, there is only mass attention and outrage when a child is killed and silence thereafter,’’ De Lille said. Another way the council was helping young people to break free of the cycle of poverty was through empowerment opportunities such as the YouthStartCT Entrepreneurial Challenge. “As we are about to celebrate Youth Month, last week we launched the third edition of this highly successful challenge with the announcement of 100 finalists,” she said. “YouthStartCT is a city initiative aimed at giving young entrepreneurs a boost with their businesses. “This programme also speaks to how the government, the private sector and residents can make progress possible by bringing innovative solutions that will see the reduction of the unemployment rate, especially among young people.” This was in line with the city’s goal in their organisational development and transformation plan to promote economic inclusion by empowering young people with the tools and skills to be economically active. YouthStartCT saw young business people going head-to-head with their business ideas, receiving training and refining their businesses. De Lille said through various rounds of elimination, they would get to the top 10 and the top three winners would be announced ahead of Youth Day. Last year’s winner, Yandisa Langa, started farming at his home in Fish Hoek and soon started supplying vegetables to large retailers. His business continued to grow as he is now also supplying six restaurants and individual households who place orders with his company. nadinef@afrotone.co.za