THE inaugural ANC two-day land summit at the weekend in Boksburg became a festival of ideas on ways to elevate the party’s resolution on the expropriation of land without compensation to government policy. As Parliament’s Constitutional Amendment Committee is in the process of canvassing public comments on the issue before charting the way forward for the National Assembly to allow for the expropriation of land without compensation, the ANC convened a land summit attended by ANC heavy weights including former presidents Jacob Zuma, Kgalema Motlanthe and President Cyril Ramaphosa. Ramaphosa said multipronged strategies needed to be explored by the government, business, and community stakeholders among others to realise the ANCs 54th national congress policy resolution on land reform. “This workshop is really meant to give full substance and chart a way forward for us as a movement on how we should give effect to the resolution that was adopted by the ANC 54th national conference,” Ramaphosa said. “Without the recognition of the property rights of all our people we will not overcome inequality. Without giving the poor the means to productively work and farm the land we will not be able to defeat poverty. “As we have said before, this debate presents an opportunity for a new reinvigorated drive for meaningful and sustainable land reform. It is also an opportunity to assert the transformational intent of our Constitution,” Ramaphosa said. Motlanthe ripped into traditional leaders who held land on behalf of the communities they led. This was said in relation to the dispute over the Ingonyama Trust, which controls 3 million hectares of tribal land on behalf of king Goodwill Zwelithini. “People in the villages who have lived there for generations now have to pay the Ingonyama Trust board more than a R1000 and it escalates annually by 10%,” Motlanthe said. “I have a sample of that lease agreement. It is an ordinary lease that you sign with any landlord anywhere. But this is what people in the rural areas are subjected to. “Some traditional leaders support the ANC, but the majority of them are acting as village tinpot dictators to the people there. The people had high hopes the ANC would liberate them from all these confines of the homeland systems, but clearly now we are the ones who are saying the land must go to traditional leaders and not the people,” Motlanthe said. One of the speakers invited by the ANC was advocate Tembeka Ngcukaitobi, who said the Constitution already empowered the government to expropriate land without compensation. “ We go from the common law, we go to the constitutions and we go to the expropriation regime. We have been enforcing a willing seller, willing buyer, which is in conflict with the Constitution,” Ngcukaitobi said. “The common law has always enabled the legislature to pass a law that would entitle us to expropriate land without compensation. “The just and equitable model towards compensation has always enabled us to value the land sometimes at zero because if you look at history, state investment and all this can be done at zero,” Ngcukaitobi said. -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@thenewage.co.za