Convicted murderer Sandile Mantsoe will serve an effective 32 years in prison for the murder of former girlfriend Karabo Mokoena following a judgement by the  South Gauteng High Court on Thursday. Judge Peet Johnson handed Mantsoe a 30-year sentence for murder, five years for assault and four years for defeating the end of justice. However, the judge said in being lenient, the assault and defeating the ends of justice sentences will run concurrently. While delivering the sentence, Johnson said that Mantsoe was a danger to society and ‘it would not be inappropriate to say that you give men a bad name’. He said that he deserved a harsh sentence. Earlier, the state has pleaded with the court to give convicted murderer Sandile Mantsoe a life sentence for the murder of Karabo Mokoena. The state is pleading with judge Peet Johnson in the South Gauteng High Court where he is expected to deliver is sentence on Thursday Mantsoe was found guilty of the murder of former girlfriend Karabo Mokoena on Wednesday. Mantsoe killed his girlfriend in 2017, burnt her and disposed of her body. It is believed that Mokoena was killed in a sacrificial ritual. Mantsoe was convicted on three counts of murder, assault and defeating the ends of justice by judge Peet Johnson. During his trial, Mantsoe pleaded not guilty to all the three charges levelled against him. Mantsoe claimed that Mokoena committed suicide and that he had discovered her dead body hours after they were involved in an argument. Following the verdict,  Mantsoe continued to advocate his innocence in her murder. “I tried to be a positive influence in her life, but it’s unfortunate that I came into her life when things were really bad.  Maybe I am guilty of trying to build a person and being the last one there when she collapsed,” Mantsoe said. Mokoena was reported missing and her remains were later discovered a shallow grave in Lyndhurst, Johannesburg. Meanwhile, the African National Congress Women’s League (ANCWL) has called for a maximum jail sentence with no option to parole on Mantsoe. “ANCWL is unapologetic in calling for maximum jail sentences for those convicted for the barbaric gruesome killings of women and all forms of gender-based violence. No Judge must have a single iota of mercy when sentencing such monsters. “Whilst maximum jail sentence will not bring back Karabo to life, Sandile must be given maximum jail sentence with no option for parole for his gruesome killing of Karabo,” the ANCWL said in a statement. Judge Johnson’s judgement was welcomed by members of the public including political parties. EFF leader Julius Malema said that this is an indication that justice is served. “We welcome this verdict as a step in the right direction towards finding justice for the high levels of femicide facing our country. South African men are at war against women,” he said. -Afro Reporter