IT HAS been hardly a week since news of Msawawa and Mzambiya reunion was announced and local media and music fans seem to have been taken in by the two artists who more than 20 years ago forced music fans to sit up and take note of their talents at a time when kwaito was the dominant force in the local music industry. The thumping bass lines and catchy lyrics from the two kwaito stars who in 2001 gave us the hit song Wawngakanani (how old were you) reignite the magic of the past in the new song, Imoto Kashukela, loosely translated as the car that carries good things. Afro Voice had the pleasure of picking up the brains of both Msawawa and Mzambiya in a sit-down interview organised by their manager and founder of Bull Dawgs Entertainment, Oscar Mlangeni. “Twenty years is a long time. I am happy that through the grace of God we are still alive and now we have come full circle in our careers as musicians after giving music fans our first hit together almost 18 years ago, Msawawa said. “The good thing about this is that we are working with guys who were born when Mzambiya and I were starting out in 1998. Sol Boys the Guys who are producing Imoto Kashukela were born in 1998 and were discovered by Bra Oscar who discovered Mzambiya and I. Talk about all things are possible with God’s Grace.” When asked if they are ready to commit to a tight and demanding schedule and if the single can grow into a full length album, Mzambiya said the direction of their next move would depend on how the fans receive them before he finally hangs up his microphone. “Both of us are fully committed to this project. At the moment it is still a single and should our fans call for a full album, we will take from there. “As for me personally, this is one of my last projects in music as I want to focus on business and behind the scenes work. So we will have to make it work,” Mzambiya said. The Zola-born Mzambiya, who is close to Oscar, said he was driving to Pretoria with his mentor (Oscar) when the conversation steered to Msawawa’s whereabouts. “We were on the road to Pretoria for other things when I told Bra Oscar that I missed my chemistry with Msawawa and asked if he can arrange that he brings him closer. When we called Msawawa he also seemed to like the idea of a joint song to celebrate our 20 years of music and the rest was us getting back into the studio and the quick recording of Imoto Kashukela,” Mzambiya said. Msawawa said: “We decided to change our style to fit in with what is happening today. Imoto Kashukela is Gqom inspired and it was important for us to move with the times. “All in all the song is about the good times and a car that brings nice things. It is a great song and people seem to love it.” -SIYABONGA SITHOLE|siyabongas@afrotone.co.za