STUDENTS’ mental health continues to be a concern with some universities receiving at least 500 calls a month through their helpline service from distressed students. A number of universities have put support systems in place to ensure that students are helped through any mental health challenges. The University of Pretoria said it had a student counselling unit that is dedicated to the mental health of all registered students. Students can also be admitted to hospital when necessary. There are five full-time professional psychologists and three interns offering
their services. “There are also three part-time sessional psychologists. The university is in the process of appointing two further sessional psychologists, four more interns and one full-time clinical psychologist. These professionals provide services at all four main campuses of the university,” university spokesperson Rikus Delport said. Delport said the student counselling unit had policies for screening students for mental health needs and that preventative programmes were run regularly at critical times in the academic calendar. Earlier this month a mining engineering student from the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) allegedly committed suicide by jumping off the third floor of his private residence,
Clifton Heights in Braamfontein. The alleged suicide came just seven months after the death of a Wits student who jumped from the sixth floor of another residence. Including these two, at least four cases of suspected suicide in the past eight months, one suicide attempt in the last seven months. At the University of Cape Town, at least six students died due to unnatural causes in 2017, although not all of them were confirmed as suicides. Wits University spokesperson Buhle Zuma said new mental health and wellness strategies were being finalised. The Tshwane University of Technology offers psychological support services to all students through the Directorate of Student Development and Support. Students can make use of the therapy service for as long as they need to and it is free of charge. The support service has 18 professionals, including social workers, psychologists, and counselling psychologists. According to the South African Depression and Anxiety Group, studies have found that even though about half of suicidal youth report for some kind of medical treatment in the months prior to their committing suicide, very few professionals pick up the warning signs. –LILLIAN SELAPISA