COMMUNITY members in the West Rand of Johannesburg have been battling to receive healthcare at the Yusuf Dadoo and Leratong hospitals due to nurses being on strike since Tuesday, demanding their performance bonus due to them since last year. Angela Motlhabe, 59, from Munsiville who had come to collect her medication was stranded outside the Yusuf Dadoo hospital as the striking workers had blocked off the entrance. “I need ARVs urgently, I am only left with one dose and I have nowhere else to get my medicine,” Motlhabe said. She said she had come to the hospital not realising that there was strike and that she would be turned away. Trust Sibanda also complained about not being treated at the hospital. “The doctor who was helping me says I should come back next week Tuesday,” Sibanda said. The protesting nurses have warned that they will continue with the strike until their demands are met, but some nurses were attending to patients who were already admitted. A nurse who was on duty said she had decided to continue working in the interests of the patients “Despite the strike and complaints I have about the working conditions, these people here are sick and they need my help and I will be here for them,” she said. Leratong hospital was filled with members of the National Health Education and Allied Workers Union (Nehawu) and the Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa, demanding a response from management. Vice-treasurer of Nehawu at Leratong, Sandile Ngidi, said: “We just want the payment of the performance bonuses which was due last year but management has not responded to us. We are also demanding salary increases of 9%. The employer needs to be realistic and consider the fact that VAT has increased and the cost of living is high.” Ngidi said it was time that workers were taken seriously. The Gauteng department of health referred Afro Voice to hospital management. Leratong Hospital CEO, Grey Dube, said he couldn’t comment on the performance bonuses as the hospital management did not authorise bonuses. Dube said that some services were interrupted as only patients who arrived at the hospital before 12pm were assisted. He vowed that the hospital would continue to help patients despite its employees being on strike. -SISANDA MADWANTSI|sisandam@afrotone.co.za