THE success Orlando Pirates experienced this season in the Premier Soccer League came as no surprise to assistant coach Rhulani Mokoena. Following a disastrous campaign whn they finished in 11th place last year, Pirates under the guidance of coach Milutin Sredejovic and Mokoena impressed as they clinched second place on the PSL log to rightfully book themselves a position in the CAF Champions League. Mokoena said a team like Pirates should always be challenging for the league title and they have laid a good foundation for the Buccaneers to achieve further success next season. “If you look at the season in relation to the legacy, the culture and the prestige that Orlando Pirates has, you then can say it only had a season of normality,” Mokoena said. “It is all about bringing the reputation of the club back to where it is supposed to be. If you look at that, Pirates are synonymous with success and challenging for the league title. “We are the only club to have won the double treble. The amount of prestige and success that then followed the brand indicates that what we have achieved this season is normal.” Mokoena, who as a player won the league, Champions League and Super Cup all with Sundowns before joining the Buccaneers, said he understood where the hype was coming from after finishing second. “In relation to where we thought we would be, we are happy with what we have achieved. We are satisfied. “We are content but we are also stimulated and extremely motivated to continue working hard at improving not only our game model but to improve on different principles within it and try together to put something that is strong enough to eventually put Pirates back where they are supposed to be.” Mokoena said they would strengthen the squad during the off season to be able to compete successfully in the Champions League and domestic competitions. Pirates have already been linked with former Kaizer Chiefs goalkeeper Brilliant Khuzwayo, Vincent Pule from Bidvest Wits and Kudakwashe Mahachi from Golden Arrows. “Everything is about Orlando Pirates and it is not about Rhulani or Micho, the club comes first. “The club is our history, it is a prestige. It is the success that has come to Pirates. “Big teams have the responsibility to replicate the prestige of the club in the style of play on the pitch. “I think the team should always reflect the club and not the individual,” Mokoena said. nevillek@afrotone.co.za