ORLANDO Pirates coach Milutin Sredojevic said his team’s chances at domination were undermined by a negligible conversion rate, which led to Bucs failing to win the Premier Soccer League title. Pirates were pipped at the post by Mamelodi Sundowns, who confirmed their new champions status with an emphatic 3-1 victory over Ajax Cape Town on Saturday. The Buccaneers endured scoring problems in the opening half of the season when they dominated teams but failed to find the back of the net. They improved in the second part, racking up impressive victories with decent score lines in the process against the likes of Baroka FC (3-1), Sundowns (3-1), Kaizer Chiefs (3-1), Chippa United (4-2) and Bidvest Wits (4-0). But Sredojevic remains pleased with his side’s achievement which has seen them improve from an 11th place finish last year to second this campaign. “If our conversion ratio was better in the first half of the season I believe we could have gone one step better than where we are,” Sredojevic said. “But we need to know that we grew as the season went on. We will take this as a rebuilding process where we looked for stability. In the second half of the season, we’ve proven ourselves, earning 32 points from 14 matches.” The Serb could only hope that players like Thamsanqa Gabuza, Thabo Qalinge, Mpho Makola and Justine Shonga, who were guilty of missing chances earlier in the season, find their sense of direction in the upcoming season. “If a similar scenario happened in the first round we will be talking different, however, this is how the sport is. There is no automatic button you press and things work. “We are happy that we are succeeding in rebuilding the team and they have confidence and their mentality is strong. “There are so many positives to be picked from the season and we will analyse it from all possible angles. I can assure the supporters that we will strengthen the team where needed.” “We will have a demanding season ahead of us and we need at least two quality players for each position.” With nothing left to play for as the result against Free State Stars on May 12 won’t change their league position, Sredojevic said they want to finish the season on a high note. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@afrotone.co.za