THE standing committee on public accounts has asked the SA Social Security Agency to investigate the matter of personal security offered to its former chief executive officer, Pearl Bhengu, since 2012. Scopa has also in a statement blasted Sassa for circumventing supply-chain management processes when planning three events, which amounted to R4m each in KwaZulu-Natal and was approved by Bhengu. “She did this without the three quotes required and it is apparent that prices were inflated for the services that were required,” Scopa chairperson Themba Godi said. Scopa, he said, had noted the commitments made by the acting CEO Abraham Mahlangu and the new Minister, Susan Shabangu, that action would be taken against officials where necessary and, where applicable, monies would be recovered. Meanwhile, the DA will write to Minister Shabangu to request that her department take urgent action to hold her predecessor, Bathabile Dlamini, and Bhengu personally liable for gross irregular expenditure at the department during their tenure, including the R16m spent on dubious “education meetings”. “Dlamini and Bhengu cannot escape accountability for their complicity in turning Sassa into their personal piggy bank while diverting money to vanity projects that did not improve the material welfare of grant recipients,” DA MP Tim Brauteseth said. While the DA welcomed the commitments by Mahlangu to conduct further investigations, Parliament must still exercise its oversight responsibilities. “Therefore Dlamini and Bhengu should be summoned to urgently appear before Scopa to account for their actions,” Brauteseth said. He demanded that Bhengu be immediately suspended pending an investigation and, if found guilty, made to pay back all the Sassa money that was wasted. “The same is true for Dlamini, the fact she is now the Minister of Women despite her demonstrated poor leadership is an indictment of the ANC government and sends a clear message that accountability is not a priority.” news@afrotone.co.za