The Democratic Nursing Organisation of South Africa (Denosa) has called for access to quality healthcare for all citizens. Denosa acting general secretary Cassim Lekhoathi said their members were being demoralised on a daily basis because of the state of healthcare across the country. Lekhoathi said they were places where urgent attention was needed to address the collapse of the health system. “Just on Monday night at a maternity ward, one nurse was looking after 27 patients across five units at the De Aar Hospital in Northern Cape. “This is very abnormal situation that unfortunately has become the norm in many health facilities across the country, which puts nurses and patients in a compromising position,” he said. “Nurses are demoralised to where they are unable to render services.” Lekhoathi said they were going to call on the government to intervene in places were there were not enough workers. He said there would be activities until month end where they would be raising several concerns posed by their members, with a key focus of finding lasting solutions. “Until all-sufficient support is provided to the nursing professionals in our facilities as soon as possible and proper governance of healthcare is closely watched, we are likely to find
ourselves in the same position next year again,” he said. He said staff shortages was one thing that seriously compromised quality healthcare in the country. “People in rural areas remain greatly deprived of this right due to severe shortage of nurses, resources, medication and equipment among others,” he said. Lekhoathi said they would like to highlight the difficulty of accessing quality healthcare by citizens in the country. “Nurses are finding it extremely difficult to celebrate their week because of the heartbreaking conditions, they work under daily in the facilities,” he said. Meanwhile, spokesperson of the department of health in Northern Cape, Lebogang Majaha, said they were investigating the matter of one nurse looking after 27 patients. He said they had in the past experienced challenges of staff shortages especially in far-flung areas and rural healthcare facilities. Majaha said the new MEC, Fufe Makatong, would outline plans to address the healthcare system in the province during her budget vote next month. -TIISETSO MANOKO