GROWTH in private-sector credit demand for April came in weaker than expected, which is not indicative of revived positive economic growth and the recent spike in both business and consumer confidence in the country. This was revealed in the latest data published by the Reserve Bank that showed expansion in private-sector credit demand in SA slowed to at least 5.07% in April – from a revised 5.98% in March. However, credit to households increased moderately over the month. The strength of loan growth is cited as a signal of corporate and consumer willingness to spend in the future – with businesses and households more likely to take on additional debt when expectations about the future are positive, leading to increased appetite for goods and services spending. But overall, the credit growth for April disappointed somewhat, with figures indicating modest demand for credit. “The slowdown in credit growth was due to the investment and bills category as well as the other loans and advances category, which both dropped sharply over the month,” economist Johannes Khosa said. “However, credit demand is still likely to improve in the months ahead on better economic growth, with modestly lower interest rates and softer inflation,” Khosa said. He further pointed out that a more convincing upward move in demand was more likely next year after the national elections – and as improved growth starts to translate into better employment and fixed investment growth. Eskom economist Mandla Maleka said despite the modest improvement, the reality was that the numbers were pointing in the right direction for the economy. “In March we had an interest rate cut and both individuals and companies will come forward in the months ahead to expand on credit, given the general positiveness in the economy and business confidence. “Going ahead will see the companies borrowing more, but it will take time for double digit growth. The economy needs to perform over the 2% growth if double digit credit growth is experienced again,” Maleka said. Economist Laura Campbell said unsecured lending to businesses came under pressure in April. “Increased talk of land expropriation without compensation and uncertainty as to how this will be implemented may have weighed down on the willingness of businesses to invest in the month. “However, year-on-year growth in mortgage advances edged upwards to 4.8% in April, from 4.6% in March. “This may have occurred on the back of improved consumer confidence in the first quarter and the further cut in interest rates at the end of March,” she said. -BERNARD SATHEKGE|bernards@thenewage.co.za