BLOEMFONTEIN police have arrested a man believed to be part of a group that has been robbing students in the Universitas suburb, Bloemfontein. Police spokesperson Col Thandi Mbambo said three men had been attacking and robbing students in the area for the past two months, leading to an intense investigation and police deployment in the area. The man was arrested at the weekend and police continued to search for his accomplice. Last week, three armed men stormed a student commune in Stegmann Street, Universitas and ordered a group of students to lie down. The men then took two laptops in the kitchen and went into the bedroom of another student and took two more laptops and a cellphone. Mbambo said as they were about to leave, they came across another student coming out of his room and robbed him of two more laptops and a Samsung J7 cellphone and fled the scene. Mbambo said following the complaints by students they followed an intelligence-led information to a house in JB Mafora in Bloemfontein. “The police traced and found them in a house where one of them lived. On arrival, one of the men pulled out a firearm and the police reacted by firing a shot which fatally wounded the man,” Mbambo said. “A 31-year-old man was arrested while the other one fled the scene and he is still at large.” Provincial commissioner Lt-Gen Moeketsi Sempe has welcomed the arrest. “Any suspect who shall attempt to threaten the life of a police officer in the execution of his or her duty or a law abiding citizen, such an act shall be met with an equivalent action within the the law,” Sempe said. Mbambo said the man was expected to appear in court soon on charges of house robbery and possession of an unlicensed firearm. The University of the Free State’s Student Representative Council (SRC) has been campaigning for the safety of off-campus students’ accommodation since last year. SRC president Asive Dlanjwa said they would be marching towards the end of the month, demanding answers from the municipality. michaelt@afrotone.co.za -MICHAEL TLHAKUDI