THE DA has advised President Cyril Ramaphosa to cut the size of his Cabinet and also to complete the update of the ministerial handbook that started in 2014 if he is serious about reducing the runaway budget deficit. In a statement issued yesterday, the DA compared what it was doing in the Western Cape with the national government’s practices. The DA said the bloated Cabinet of former president Jacob Zuma continued to live on through the new administration. “This Cabinet is by far one of the biggest in the world, with 35 ministers, far bigger than the US with 15 ministers, Kenya with 18 ministers and the UK with 21 ministers,” the DA said. “This year alone our 35 ministers and 37 deputy ministers will earn R163.5m and more than R510.5m over the medium term.” Ramaphosa, claimed the DA, could save R52.5m in 2018-19 and R163.7m over the medium term if he emulated erstwhile president Thabo Mbeki and restricted his Cabinet to a total of 50, of which 28 were ministers. “If the president is serious about helping the national Treasury rein in the runaway budget deficit, he will have to cut executive spending by finalising a stricter and more frugal ministerial handbook, as well as cutting the overall size of the Cabinet.” The DA also reminded Ramaphosa that nothing had happened since he announced in his first state of the nation address in February that he wanted lifestyle audits for the executive. “While this is welcome, no action has been taken to date.” On individual ministers, the DA said the ministerial handbook recommended that ministers’ and deputy ministers’ offices be limited to 10 and six respectively. “However, ministers have not be adhering to this as evidenced by the former minister of public service and administration, Faith Muthambi, who had 26 people in her office,” the DA said. “Last Wednesday, Public Service and Administration Minister Ayanda Dlodlo called on ministers to appoint 10 people for their private offices. “However, under her tenure at Home Affairs between October 2017 and February 2018, she had 17 people in her own private office.” -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN|ntombin@afrotone.co.za