Lack of “political will” was the main structural barrier to a black-owned bank in South Africa, professional lobby group the Association of Black Securities and Investment Professionals (Absip), said on Monday evening. This emerged at a heated roundtable discussion hosted by Absip that included Reserve Bank deputy governor Kuben Naidoo, African Bank CEO Basani Maluleke, Banking Association of SA CEO Cas Coovadia and National Empowerment Fund CEO Philisiwe
Mthethwa. ANC treasurer-general Paul Mashatile was also present. Many black business lobby groups and other pressure groups have been yearning for a black-owned bank for the past 24 years. “We believe there has to be a deliberate policy position on the licensing of black-owned banks and that the government should take a firm stand on this issue,” Sibongiseni Mbatha, president of Absip, told a conference on black-owned banks. “We are calling for the political will to establish black-owned banks.” In a bid to try to fast track the dream, Absip has formed a think-tank to look at all aspects of realising the goal. However, the ANC’s Mashatile called on Absip and other organisations to “move beyond debates” and use the current period of renewed hope to establish black players in the economic recovery of the country. Duma Gqubule, transformation advocate and an expert in the financial service sector, agreed with Absip’s call for a stronger show of political will. “Firstly, one wonders why the debate left the Public Investment Corporations (PIC) out of the picture. The PIC owns R202bn worth of assets in the financial sector, which is equivalent to 11% of the sector. Further, the PIC holds 13% of Standard Bank, 12% of Sanlam and 11% of Old Mutual. But we don’t use this power we have in the financial sector,” he said. However, Gqubule said although a black-owned bank was needed, “we must go beyond a black bank by increasing state involvement in the financial sector”. “The state is a very important player in the sector, given the government’s deposits of about R300bn in the sector. If we invest a portion of that into the dream, surely it will be viable,” he said. He said it was true the government “is holding us back because is all about the political will”. The Reserve Bank said it was committed to supporting the licensing of black-owned banks. -BERNARD SATHEKGE