TWO men accused of property hijacking in Johannesburg are expected to appear in the Hillbrow Magistrate’s Court today. This comes after the property hijacked in Yeoville was handed over to its rightful owner after the duo was arrested on Friday. One of the accused property hijackers will be charged with contravening Section 3(1) of the Prevention Illegal Eviction Act, contempt of court and trespassing while his co-accused will be charged for contempt of court and trespassing. Meanwhile in the Palm Ridge Magistrate’s Court, five people accused for kidnapping Baby Eden will appear with their legal representation to present and arrange for their bail application. The accused who include the family domestic worker are facing charges of schedule six kidnapping and blackmail appeared in court last week, where they were denied bail. The 13-month-old toddler was reported missing on May 2, after reports that the domestic worker had taken the child from his Brackendowns home for a walk from which they both never returned. Gauteng police spokesperson Lungelo Dlamini said: The suspects demanded a R6m ransom from the parents, in return for the safe release of the child.” In another matter, the trial of the five family members from Krugersdorp accused of a series of murders in the Johannesburg High Court will know their trial date on Wednesday. The accused appeared in court two weeks ago and the matter was postponed after the judge heard that two of the accused would sign plea bargains. The members are facing charges relating to the murder of 11 people over four years. They are facing charges of racketeering, aggravated assault, being in possession of an unlicensed firearm, committing fraud and identity theft. The first murders took place in 2012, leading up to 2016. Meanwhile, 23-yearold Thabani Mzolo who allegedly killed his ex-girlfriend Zolile Khumalo is expected to appear in the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Thursday. Mzolo who is charged with murder and possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition, appeared last week for his second appearance where he was remanded in custody after investigators were unable to verify his address. -KEITUMETSI MOTLHALE|keitumetsim@afrotone.co.za