Tributes pour in for former SABC board chairperson and ANC veteran Eddie Funde. 74-years-old Funde died on Tuesday morning after suffering a cardiac arrest. Born Sonwabo Eddie Funde, he joined the ANC at the age of 20 and grew within its ranks until he was appointed as the party’s representative in Australia and New Zealand. Funde led the SABC board between 2004 and 2008, and upon the end of his tenure at the public broadcaster, he was appointed as South Africa’s ambassador to Germany. Prior to chairing the SABC board, Funde played several leadership roles in both public and private sector. These include serving as an Executive Chairperson of Kemilinks International (South Africa), Member of the Board of Trustees of Independent Development Trust (IDT) and President and Director of the South African Communications Forum. He also served as Deputy Chairperson of the Presidential National Commission on Information Society and Development, as Deputy Chairman of the South African Telecommunications Regulatory Authority (SATRA) which later became Independent Communications Authority of South Africa (ICASA), and Director of Denel amongst other posts. Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Lindiwe Sisulu said the late Funde contributed immensely to the development of South Africa’s diplomatic relations, particularly with Germany. “During his stint in Berlin, Ambassador Funde laid the foundation for what is now a solid political, economic, trade and people-to-people relationship between South Africa and Germany,” Sisulu said in a statement. She said he belonged to a generation of exiled activists who fought for freedom and returned home to contribute towards normalising South Africa’s relations with Africa and the world. Independent Development Trust (IDT), of which he was a trustee from 1995 to 2007 and Chairperson for 10 years from 1997 to 2007 also mourns the passing of Funde. The IDT joins the rest of SA in mourning the passing on of Eddie Funde, IDT Trustee from 1995 to 2007 & Chair from 1997 to 2007. May his soul rest in peace. pic.twitter.com/dhxFssId6C — Independent Development Trust (IDT) (@IDT_InDevTrust) May 23, 2018 The Ahmed Kathrada Foundation wishes the family, friends and comrades of Sonwabo Eddie Funde strength during their period of mourning.
Funde passed away in the early hours of this morning due to cardiac arrest. pic.twitter.com/YUKNuzBoQs — Kathrada Foundation (@KathradaFound) May 22, 2018 Ambassador Eddie Funde passed away early this morning. Eddie was ANC Representative to Australia in the 80s & retained his passion for, and links with, Australia for the rest of his life. I was lucky to count Eddie as a personal friend & extend deepest condolences to his family. pic.twitter.com/CRk7UuA3U4 — Adam McCarthy (@AuHCSouthAfrica) May 22, 2018 Details of the memorial service and funeral will be communicated at a future date. -Afro Voice Reporter