African National Congress(ANC) said it is concerned about the regular accidents were miners are losing their lives at the countries’ mines. The ANC said the accidents must serve as an urgent reminder to mining companies to pay attention to mine safety, and the party was hopeful the latest accident will urge mining companies to priorities workers safety. The call comes after seven miners died in a rockfall at Sibanye-Stillwater mine in Driefontein near Carletonville on Thursday. Thirteen miners were trapped underground at the company’s Masakhane mine on the West Rand after an earthquake which measured 2.2 on a Richter Scale caused the mine to cave in. According to the mine management, six employees remain in a stable condition after they were taken to a hospital. ANC Spokesperson Pule Mabe said the safety, health and well-being of workers cannot be sacrificed at the altar of greed and profit. “We wish to join the mining unions in their call for mining companies to improve safety measures at their operations. “There must be a total overhaul of safety measures in all mining operations. Among other things, mining companies have a responsibility to ensure that effective rescue plans are in place.” Mabe said. Mabe said the Department of Mineral Resources must be uncompromising in its enforcement of safety measures in the mines. Meanwhile, President Cyril Ramaphosa has also expressed his sadness at the tragedy and send his condolences to the families of the bereaved. Ramaphosa said also wished the miners, whom he said may have directly or indirectly affected by this disaster, which should move the mining industry and government to jointly find ways to do everything possible to protect the nation’s most valuable resource, the workers who are at the heart of the country’s economy. “We should spare no cost and no collaboration to ensure that workers are safe and their families are adequately cared for and compensated when disaster and tragedy strike,” Ramaphosa said in a statement. The President said he hoped the investigation into the Driefontein disaster will identify the causes of the incident and lead to solutions that will address the unacceptable rate of death in the country’s mines. -Afro Reporter