Famed South African club Kaizer Chiefs produced a happy ending to a trophy-less season by winning 2-1 at Ajax Cape Town to clinch a 2019 CAF Confederation Cup place. Chiefs, who have won more trophies and command more support than any other football club in the republic, finished third in the Premiership, 12 points behind champions Mamelodi Sundowns. It was the second successive league win for the Amakhosi (Chiefs) under caretaker coach and former Malawi star Patrick Mabedi. Steve Komphela quit last month when an FA Cup semi-final loss in Durban triggered a crowd invasion that forced police to use tear gas and stun grenades. Former Chelsea and West Ham United manager Avram Grant, who coaches Indian Super League outfit NorthEast United, has been linked to the vacant post. Record eight-time title winners Sundowns drew 0-0 at Bloemfontein Celtic having been crowned champions two weeks ago while second-place Orlando Pirates won 2-1 at home to Free State Stars. Sundowns and Pirates go into the 2019 CAF Champions League while Chiefs and the winners of the FA Cup final between Maritzburg United and Free State Stars qualify for the Confederation Cup. Both Sundowns and Pirates have been African champions while Chiefs won the now defunct African Cup Winners Cup in 2001. Neither Maritzburg nor Free State have competed in a CAF competition. Sundowns completed the 30-round league with 60 points followed by Pirates (55), Chiefs (48), Maritzburg (44), Cape Town City, Free State (40 each), Golden Arrows and AmaZulu (38 each). The top eight finishers qualify for a lucrative early 2018-2019 season knockout competition with a winners-take-all eight million rand ($655,000/550,000 euro) prize. With Platinum Stars already relegated, the focus at the bottom was on who would finish second last and go into play-offs, and losing at home condemned Ajax. Ajax, who have links to former European champions Ajax Amsterdam, go into a double-round mini-league with second division runners-up Black Leopards and third-place Jomo Cosmos. The play-offs begin this Wednesday and the club topping the final standings on June 2 qualify for the 2018/2019 Premiership while the other two go into far less lucrative second-tier football. Ajax needed a win over Chiefs to have any hope of dodging a bottom-two finish, but fell behind soon after half-time to a bullet header from Chiefs veteran Bernard Parker. Mosa Lebusa equalised midway through the second half in similar fashion — powering a header into the net off a corner. Chiefs goalkeeper Brilliant Khuzwayo made a superb close-range save to keep Chiefs level and when Jody February could only parry a cross at the other end, Joseph Molangoane scored. As the final whistle sounded and Ajax knew their fate, some among the losing side sank to the ground weeping while others covered their faces with the shirts. Turkey-born Ajax coach Muhsin Ertugral, a mid-season successor to sacked former Netherlands goalkeeper Stanley Menzo, seemed stunned by the outcome. Ajax must recover quickly as they face a long trip from the southwest to the northeast of South Africa for a clash with Leopards this Wednesday. -AFP