Tributes are pouring in following the death of South African legendary photographer Sam Nzima. 83-year-old Nzima died at a Nelspruit Hospital in Mpumalanga on Saturday evening, where he was taken to after he collapsed at his home on Thursday. He was famously known for the iconic Hector Peterson image taken on June 16 in 1976 students’ against the use of Afrikaans as a medium of instruction in Soweto. The picture has since come to be a memorable image for those protests. Nzima was forced to go into hiding after The World newspaper published the image the following day. He was forced to move back to Lilydale in Nelspruit, where he was kept under surveillance by the security police. The ANC has described Nzima as someone who belonged to the generation of fearless photojournalists who used the might of their lenses to tell truth to power. “His generation courageously confronted the apartheid system and regime by ensuring that the stories of the oppressed masses who yearned for freedom in their lifetime are not relegated to the periphery of history.”ANC Spokesperson Pule Mabe said. In 2011, Former President Jacob Zuma conferred an Order of Ikhamanga (Bronze) to Nzima for his It's said that "a picture tells a thousand words". Sam Nzima's Hector Peterson-June 16 photo tipped the narrative on and gained support for the struggle for freedom in South Africa. Hamba kahle gentle soul. Heartfelt condolences to the family, friends and colleagues. #RIPSamNzima pic.twitter.com/pG7mc4WqAP — Prof Thuli Madonsela (@ThuliMadonsela3) May 13, 2018  #SamNzima The last click of liberation struggle cameraman is no more . Rest in Powerful peace and rise in glory… pic.twitter.com/EEAG48iW8T — Godrich Gardee (@GardeeGodrich) May 12, 2018  We join the nation in mourning the passing of veteran photographer #SamNzima. With his camera, he exposed the brutality of the apartheid regime including the image of Hector Peterson. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family and friends.  May his soul Rest in Peace. pic.twitter.com/Sbj4P4WL8R — ANCLimpopo (@ANCLimpopo) May 12, 2018  -Afro Reporter