Minister of Police Bheki Cele has called on the Police to further pursue the assault case against former Deputy Minister of Higher Education and ANC member of parliament Mduduzi Manana. This comes after a case of common assault was opened and subsequently withdrawn against Manana by his former domestic worker Christine Wiro last week. Wiro later withdrew the charges saying she was scared to proceed with the case. An audio clip has since emerged where a voice, which has since been identified as that of Manana could be heard offering Wiro R100 000 not to continue with the case. However, in his statement, Manana refuted the claims and said he intended laying charges of extortion,  alleging that the domestic worker’ and her family was demanding the money from him. Speaking at a Memorial Lecture hosted by a Non-profit organisation, Moving Ahead Development Agency(MADA), which advocated against the killing of women on Saturday, Cele said he had instructed the police to further pursue the case against Manana. “Mduduzi manana is my friend, I spoke to him after the second one [assult]. What do you want us to do, what do you want us to say?. When I heard the story last night, it’s not the same as the one he told me. I know the case has been withdrawn, but I said to the police. They must pursue the case. It’s not the question of how much I love him, but no love can be above the love of the nation.” Cele said he was not going to sit every day counting how many women have been abused. “It doesn’t matter who you are,” He said. During his address, Cele also advised women to walk away from violent relationships. “And to young women, anybody who points a finger at you, to say I will hit you, turn around and walk away,” he said. The minister also made a call for a reform in the Justice System and the country’s laws to be adjusted to make it hard for people accused of rape to get bail. “Any person that gets the bail, the first thing he thinks to do is to eliminate the evidence and the evidence that is there is the raped woman. “So by granting that person a bail, you are not causing that person not to go and abuse the woman but to kill that woman,” The minister said. -Afro Reporter