If not music, the fuel for memories, actually rests on four wheels. The exclusive new Clio RS 18 F1 is a beast. The basic Clio as we know it has nothing on this beautiful monster. Yet, this vehicle with redefined levels of race technology, powerful performance and unique F1-inspired RS styling, took me back to Clio-land and a phone call one Sunday morning from Philip Taba, my former gardenerturned handyman. “Hullo Edwin, I’ve got some bad news,” he mumbled. “What’s happened Philip?” I asked. “Your car has been in an accident,” he said. “As long as you are fine, we can fix the car later,” I replied. “No Edwin, it rolled over a hill, we cannot drive it,” he said. The Renault Clio went down a hill and met its Waterloo about a decade ago in Groblersdal. But the main thing is Philip lived to tell the tale and continues hustling from Alexander to Benoni. I was car-less for a while until coming across a Mazda MX5 when looking at an Audi dealership website. For R85000 that amazing red MX5 remains my best buy. Memories are made of bliss. It was to be the start of a relationship with Mazda but my Renault history is more chequered. I purchased the first version of the Renault Megane in 1998 or thereabouts, which served me fairly well until the exchange rate made part prices a nightmare and maintaining this beautiful car not for the fainthearted. This white Renault Megane was full of memories. But more about that when I get down to my memoirs someday on the boulevard of broken dreams. Now is a time to salivate over the New Renault Clio RS 18 F1, a car celebrating the manufacturer’s four decades in Formula One. It is eye-catching, providing much more sparkle than the Renault F1 team, overshadowed by the likes of Red Bull, Ferrari and Mercedes-Benz on the F1 circuit. Until Philip destroyed my Renault Clio dreams, I was pretty much a reluctant fan, though we had a Renault Modus in the household, which one kind soul said reminded her of a lady on all fours. But this is a family newspaper and we will not tease with sleaze. But I am not alone in extolling the working class virtues of the Renault Clio. Some 68000 South Africans put their money where the Clio is since the brand’s arrival in the country in 2000. That is a paltry figure compared to the 13 million units shifted globally since its launch in 1990. What turned me off Renault, I now recall, was their poor service. However, that was a while back and, God bless their soul, they may have improved substantially. Given that the remarkable Carlos Ghosn, the global boss of Renault, is at the helm, some of his finesse must have rubbed off, one hopes on his South African principals. While the Formula One model is the flagship model, the New Clio, with the F1 flagship, is bound to be a hot seller. My friend Philip will be pleased to know that the newby comes with practical, simple and smart technologies that are generally associated with the next segment up but more than that it has great safety features, described as one of the five safest vehicles on our roads. Philip has moved on to greener pastures in Benoni so I won’t ask him to take this vehicle on the Groblersdal hill escapade. I am pleased that this Renault Clio, despite the F1 turbo engine, offers a claimed 5.2 litres per 100km, which is impressive. Retired French football icon Thierry Henry may no longer be the face of Renault but the va va voom has returned. But let’s not put the memorable Philip Taba to the test this time around. -DWIN NAIDU