The gloves are off between Premier Soccer League chairman Irvin Khoza and South African Football Association president Danny Jordaan. This after a report in a weekend newspaper claimed that Jordaan had opened a case of defamation, criminal collusion, and conspiracy against Khoza, alleging that Khoza was the catalyst in Jennifer Ferguson’s decision to lay a rape charge against the Safa boss. Ferguson laid a complaint of rape at the Parkview police station in Johannesburg, accusing Jordaan of raping her 25 years ago at a hotel in Port Elizabeth. But Khoza fired back and blasted Jordaan’s “bizarre and absurd conspiracy theories” yesterday. “Let me unequivocally say from the onset I do not know Miss Jennifer Ferguson,” Khoza said. “I have never met her, spoken to her, or had any form of contact with her. “I know nothing of what is alleged by Danny Jordaan to the police or in the media about me. “Through my discussions with Jordaan at an event on April 27, it did not once cross my mind that come Sunday, April 29, I was going to wake up to the most bizarre and absurd conspiracy theories involving my name. “I think it’s important to take you through the flow of events leading up to Sunday the 29th of April up to this moment. “On Friday, April 27 there was a Safa executive committee meeting, where both Dr. Jordaan and I were in attendance. “In this meeting, Dr. Jordaan mentioned how he is mounting a massive fight and insinuated my involvement in something he was going to expose. “When I enquired about the reasons and content of this fight, he said I should wait for Saturday and Sunday to see. I did not know that on Sunday I would wake up to the most bizarre and absurd of conspiracy theories involving my name.” The allegations were that Khoza had paid for Ferguson’s flights and accommodation to South Africa through a third party. But Khoza rubbished these, insisting he has made extensive calls to a travel agency, his credit card company and other relevant parties to ensure nothing was paid for on his behalf. “I have contacted my bankers to investigate if there was any payment made through my credit card for any flights or accommodation. “I have asked the company if anyone associated with me had booked or made any travel arrangement for Miss Ferguson. And I am still awaiting the results of those investigations.” Khoza said he has not received any communication from the police or Jordaan since the report was published in the media and that he would do his best to clear his name. He declined to say what actions he was going to take if his name was cleared. “I can’t say anything at this point as I indicated I have asked the media to give me the documents and I haven’t seen such.” nevillek@afrotone.co.za