PARENTS with children who suffer from asthma, which can be fatal, can teach them how to manage it. This as South Africa marked World Asthma Day yesterday, under the theme “Never too early, Never too late. It’s always the right time to address airways disease”. It is estimated that South Africa has among the highest rates of asthma fatalities in the world and according to The Global Initiative for Asthma, SA has the fourth highest asthma death rate among five to 35 year olds globally. Asthma is a lung condition which causes inflammation and the narrowing of airways leading to difficulty in breathing, wheezing and tight chest, among other symptoms. A Soweto mother, Gloria Mojapelo, whose 15-year-old son has suffered from asthma from the time he was very little, said his condition was so serious that she was at her wits end. She then began researching the condition in a bid to make both their lives a little bit easier. “It is absolutely a nightmare to discover that your child has a lifelong chronic condition and worse not being equipped with information on how you can deal with it. I was just told that my child had asthma and sent home. I really struggled to manage the condition and really thought to myself how bad can it be. I’m sure with time it will go away,” Mojapelo said. She said because of a lack of information, many people don’t know what asthma is and what to do if a person, especially a child, is having an attack. Mojapelo said the school would often call her when her son was having asthma attacks. “I would get a frantic call from the school and my mood would just turn sour in an instant. That time I didn’t have a car and would have to wait for a taxi and by the time I get to school, my child would be so tired and crying that he didn’t even want to raise his head,” she said. Mojapelo said she had to take the initiative to do research on asthma and took the liberty to also explain to the teachers what to do when her son was having an asthma attack. “I made sure that he had his pump with him and also the teacher had one in case he misplaced his and communication between me and the school also helped because then they knew what to do when he had an attack,” she said. The mother said while asthma affected the quality of her son’s life, learning to manage the condition meant that he could enjoy his childhood without feeling bad about his condition. Running hard, smoke and exposure to allergens are among triggers for an asthma attack in children. “Asthma is a condition that sufferers have to live with every day, which is why education should play a central part in managing it,” marketing manager respiratory at Cipla, Lisl de Villiers, said in a statement. “If children understand what their condition is, why they are taking a specific medication and how to use their medication properly, they should be able to lead normal lives.” -LERATO DIALE|leratod@afrotone.co.za