KAIZER Chiefs manager Bobby Motaung says the club will announce its new coach before the start of the pre-season camp before the end of June. Chiefs are still without a coach following the resignation of Steve Komphela in April after his side lost 2-0 to Free State Stars in the Nedbank Cup semifinal. Patrick Mabedi was in charge of the club in their last three matches in which he recorded two victories and a defeat. Motaung said they had short-listed six coaches from 20 who sent in their CVs and went for interviews but decined to name the candidates. Afro Voice understand that Luc Eymael is one of the coaches the club approached but it remains to be seen who will be given the hot seat. “There is a shortlist. We’ve had a lot of coaches that have fished, there are about 15-20 coaches’ CVs that we’ve received and we have shortlisted it,” Motaung said. “We are now on the verge of finalising the man that we feel will carry the club forward. “It’s a process and there’s meetings and committees where we sit and analyse and interact and obviously give our views and inputs.” With Chiefs also to make an announcement on new players before the new coach arrives, Motaung defended the decision and said any coach would have done research on the players. “They have done their research and we give feedback in the interviews on what the challenges are and what possibilities are there. “Obviously coaches do their research, they check, they know where we are lacking and they give input when they sign. “But we know the challenge as a club. we have our technical committee that understands and analyses. “We are not going to change like 15-20 players, like building a new team. That will create challenges for the new coach. “But we are definitely going to the market to bolster the squad.” • Chiefs meet Mamelodi Sundowns in the Shell Helix Ultra Cup on July 21 at FNB Stadium. The event, run by Stadium Management South Africa and sponsored by Shell Helix, does not replace the Carling Black Label Cup fixture between Chiefs and Orlando Pirates. -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@afrotone.co.za