The family of an autistic 10-year-old, Katlego Joja, who went missing last week, yesterday were called to identify her body in Mamelodi’s D2 section. Joja was last seen on Thursday at her home in D4, Mamelodi West while playing in the yard. Joja’s uncle Lebohang Storom said the family was shattered by her death. He said that she had gone missing about 9 am when the mother and grandmother both went to check on her. “They both thought she was with the other one but started panicking when they realised that she was not. They searched for her at the tuck shop across the road because she is not one to leave the yard,” he said. “She will not necessarily let anyone know she is lost because she keeps to herself. Although she takes instructions she will not be able to articulate herself. She will not be seen as a child in distress.” Storom said they were particularly concerned about her because she is uncomfortable around people and prefers not to be touched or interact with anyone she is not familiar with. He lamented the police’s handling of the case when it was first reported as the family had to do so at least twice on the day before a case was opened. Former police minister Fikile Mbalula recently said there was no waiting period for reporting a missing person. Mamelodi West police spokesperson Capt Johannes Maheso yesterday said they would investigate why the local police failed to open a case immediately the family made the report. Maheso said the police were working tirelessly to ensure the child was found and appealed to anyone with information to come forward. Late yesterday evening there were unconfirmed reports that the missing girl had been found dead. Meanwhile, Eden Laird, a 13-month-old toddler who was kidnapped from his home in Brackendowns, Alberton, in Ekurhuleni, was safely returned to his father and taken to a hospital for a medical examination. The boy was reported missing last Wednesday. It was reported to police that the family’s domestic worker had taken the child from his Brackendowns home for a walk from which they both never returned. The police immediately launched an operation, keeping close tabs on the numerous phone calls where suspects demanded a R6m ransom from the parents, in return for the safe release of the child. “The police arrested the initial two suspects at the ransom drop-off point in Ekurhuleni West. Further investigations led police to Windmill Park where the domestic worker and another suspected co-conspirator were also arrested,” police spokesperson Col Lungelo Dlamini said. He said the fifth suspect was arrested in Katlehong, where a vehicle was seized on suspicion of having been used in the commission of the crime. –LILLIAN SELAPISA AND KUTULLO MADISHA