IN A first for the country, Gauteng province has launched drone technology to monitor delivery of infrastructure projects. The MEC for the Gauteng department of infrastructure development (DID), Jacob Mamabolo, said through this the DID had found a solution to an international problem of poor performance in construction. Mamabolo said that the country spent R1 trillion on infrastructure every year and the drones aimed to improve performance, efficiency and effectiveness. “Ladies and gentlemen, it is possible for the government to be even ahead of the private sector and to perform to the best of its ability. “When we do well, the construction sector will do well, the economy will do well because the construction depends on overall performance and government investment is the best form of expenditure to improve sentiments in the sector,” Mamabolo said. “As DID, we have as part of modernising the delivery of infrastructure have found a very important innovative way of powering the delivery of infrastructure with smart technologies. The reason we are doing this is that our portfolio of infrastructure projects worth about R4.5bn in the next three years that they can meet the criteria of being called high-performance projects. He said that the drone technology would enable the government to adhere to the three internationally recognised performance standards of infrastructure projects – time, quality and cost. “A high-performance project for me is one that would be delivered within the time that is stated in the contract between the government and the service providers. Secondly, its project stays within cost because a delayed project is an additional cost to the government. “Thirdly, we want to be able to make sure that the drone can give us the right level of accuracy to the site to see every milestone, the foundation, the walls, the roof, the landscape so that we have a better view for monitoring quality,” Mamabolo said. He said in South Africa’s case, there was a fourth performance variable which was the paying of suppliers within 30 days. “Presently we are not paying our suppliers in 30 days,” he said. “We are unveiling this drone which is adding to the capabilities that we have in DID in what we call Lutsinga Infrastructure House, a nerve centre which is aimed at modernising delivery of public infrastructure in the province,” Mamabolo said. “We have human, business and artificial forms of intelligence, the three give us the single source of the truth because sometimes human intelligence has its own weaknesses, including corruption, lies, which is distorted data. “The weakness with business intelligence is that it depends on what people tell you. The third source of information, which is the drone, you can’t fool, it can tell the real thing on the ground,” Mamabolo said. ntombin@afrotone.co.za