A legal showdown is looming between President Cyril Ramaphosa and former SARS boss Tom Moyane over the shortfall of revenue collection and Moyane vowed to drag the president to court over his suspension. However, as the legal showdown intensifies, it is not clear who will foot the bill and who exactly will be an advocate representing Moyane after filing court papers. In March, Ramaphosa pulled no punches in a strongly worded letter to Moyane informing him of his suspension. On Friday, the Presidency served the suspended Moyane with disciplinary charges related to alleged misconduct in violation of his duties and responsibilities in terms of the South African Revenue Service Act, Public Finance Management Act and SARS code of conduct. Retired Constitutional Court judge Kate O’Regan has been appointed as presiding officer for the disciplinary inquiry. The disciplinary inquiry relates to alleged leadership and organisational failures. A separate process through the establishment of a commission of inquiry will focus on tax administrative issues like VAT refunds and shortfalls in revenue in the past two financial years. Ramaphosa also questioned Moyane over the R70m tax refund to the Guptas, which Moyane said he had nothing to do with. Moyane has since refused to step down without a fight and is planning to drag Ramaphosa to court. It has been reported that advocate Dali Mpofu will be representing Moyane in this case. Recently, Mpofu pulled the strings for the likes of Proteas cricketer Kagiso Rabada, facing charges of shoulder bumping and also won the case for Patricia de Lille against the DA. When Afro Voice contacted Moyane to find out if he or SARS would be footing the legal bills, he referred us to his advocate Eric Mabuza. On claims regarding Mpofu, Moyane said he also heard it from the Sunday Times. Moyane has come under the microscope for alleged wrongdoings at SARS since his appointment as commissioner in September 2014 by former president Jacob Zuma. All corruption allegations, which rocked SARS two years ago have resurfaced. Moyane has also come under fire accused of protecting former SARS second in command Jonas Makwakwa for a number of corruption allegations. Makwakwa resigned in March and Moyane said his resignation was personal. Mabuza did not respond to emailed questions on who would foot the legal bill once they file court papers. Further, he did not give clarity on who will be the advocate in this matter. When pressed further, Mabuza said he had nothing to say beyond what was published in the weekend papers. “Nothing to add,” he said. -Bernard Sathekge