The Democratic Alliance’s (DA) Federal Executive has announced on Tuesday that embattled Cape Town Mayor, Patricia de Lille’s membership from the party has ceased. The Federal Executive met on Mondy where they resolved to endorse the findings of the FLC and says De Lille has also been informed about the resolution. Accordingly, the Federal Executive resolved last night to endorse the finding of the FLC that her membership had ceased as of 26 April, the date of the 702 interview. We have informed Ms #deLille and City Manager of this fact. — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) May 8, 2018  The DA, in particular, turned to section 3.5.1.2 of its constitution to get rid of De Lille citing that she had made public declarations about her intention to resign from the Party. The DA took exception to an interview De Lille had with talk radio host, Eusebius McKaiser on Radio 702 last month where she indicated that she intended to resign from the DA as soon as she “had cleared her name”. #deLille took part in a radio interview with Eusebius McKaiser on Radio 702 on 26 April 2018. In the course of this interview, Ms de Lille on two occasions indicated that she intended to resign from the DA as soon as she “had cleared her name”. pic.twitter.com/SHM2YYirwC — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) May 8, 2018 The DA has since announced that current Deputy Mayor Ian Neilson will step in while a decision is taken to decide who will replace De Lille. The party had said last week that it would make an announcement on De Lille’s future once it had received legal advice on the matter after they received legal papers from De Lille advising that she intends to approach the courts with regard to the DA’s recall clause. However, De Lille denied this and said that she had not formally served any court papers on the party with regards to the recall clause. De Lille said her lawyers only sent the party a copy of her draft papers which would only be formally issued and served once the recall clause is invoked. The mayor is facing expulsion from the party following accusations that she repeatedly breached the Code of Conduct for Councillors as well as the Constitution of the DA, by bringing the party into disrepute, as well as breaching the conditions of her suspension. The DA’s caucus in Cape Town last week moved a motion of no confidence against her using the newly adopted recall clause. Meanwhile, recently a ‘fake letter’ alleged to be an Auditor General’s document on De Lille’s case was shared on social media. The document was allegedly also shared by some DA members of Parliament. The DA on Monday clarified that such a document was a “fake letter has never been used as the basis for any disciplinary matter between Patricia de Lille and the party,” said the DA. However, De Lille said that she will be laying criminal charges against those who shared the fraudulent post. In light of this information, I will be laying criminal charges against those who shared the fraudulent post. I will also lodge a formal complaint against the named @Our_DA members with the FLC. https://t.co/UkTmLMVani — Patricia de Lille (@PatriciaDeLille) May 7, 2018  -Afro Reporter