THE ANC must step up its efforts to give teeth to its 54th national conference resolution to see the South African embassy in Israel downgraded to a liaison office as condemnation continued to swell over the Gaza strip deaths. The call follows International Relations Minister Lindiwe Sisulu’s announcement of the withdrawal of South Africa’s ambassador to Israel, Sisa Ngombane, after a deadly attack by Israeli armed forces on the Gaza border, in which more than 59 Palestinians were killed and 2 700 others wounded on Monday. “We are saying thank you to our minister (Lindiwe Sisulu), but the second half is to deal with the Israeli ambassador here in Pretoria. Now is the time for solidarity, internationally,” ANC deputy-secretary general Jessie Duarte said at the annual Nakba (catastrophe) march by about 2000 people to Parliament in Cape Town to demand the government downgrade its Israeli embassy yesterday. The chairperson of the ANC-NEC’s subcommittee on international relations, Lindiwe Zulu, said: “The downgrading of the embassy is not so easy and straightforward to implement but the ANC remains committed. “The recent events are literally fasttracking the ANC process of implementing its conference decision in relation to Palestine and a hostile Israel.” In Parkhurst in Sandton, civil rights organisations and political parties such as BDS, the Palestinian Solidarity Campaign and the SACP converged on the US consulate to urge the South African government to cut all diplomatic ties with Israel. Officials from the consulate refused to meet the group outside, citing potential security risks. Only two people were allowed to enter the building to submit the memorandum, which representatives from the consulate refused to sign because they did not know its contents. “We applaud the South African government for the immediate recall of our ambassador to Israel, Mr Ngombane. We equally endorse the resolution taken at the ANC’s 54th national conference to downgrade the South African embassy to a liaison office,” ANC national spokesperson Pule Mabe said. With the Israeli attack coming a day before the 70th anniversary of the creation of Israel, which saw the expulsion of nearly 1 million Palestinians in what has become known as the Nakba – or catastrophe, ANC chief whip Jackson Mthembu accused the Zionist state of perpetuating the catastrophe. “Today, May 15, we stand in unflinching solidarity with the suffering Palestinians who commemorate 70 years of Nakba or Day of Catastrophe when, in 1948, Israel forcefully occupied Palestinian territory and killed and exiled millions of Palestinians. “Sadly, the Nakba continues unabated as Israel resettles its people in Palestinian territories, which is shrinking day by day.” Earlier, Sisulu condemned as unacceptable Israel’s use of deadly force against the Palestinian demonstrators. The minister said she wanted to sit down with the South African-Jewish community to explain to them why Israel’s action was unacceptable. In a pre-budget briefing related to how she had urgent talks with the new US Secretary of State, Mike Pompeo, on Monday after asking that he be called out of whatever meeting he was in to talk to her. He, however, informed her that the decision had already been made. Archbishop Emeritus Desmond Tutu also expressed his horror while the Ahmed Kathrada Foundation welcomed South Africa’s withdrawal of its ambassador. But the SA Jewish Board of Deputies and the SA Zionist Federation slammed South Africa’s action as an “anti-Semitic” attack on Israel. “By withdrawing its ambassador, South Africa is essentially walking away from playing any meaningful role in finding a sorely-needed resolution to the conflict. “The rhetoric used by the government has already spilled into antiSemitic comment on various social media platforms and the biggest losers are the South African Jewish community and other peace-loving South Africans,” the joint statement said. DA MP Stevens Mokgalapa also slammed Sisulu for withdrawing South Africa’s ambassador to Israel. “This is a departure from the South African government position of a twostate solution,” he said. -TATENDA CHISERI, BONOLO SELEBANO, LILLIAN SELAPISA AND DENNIS CRUYWAGEN