THE Minister of Human Settlements, Nomaindia Mfeketo, has taken a firm stand against land invasions and a perception that a relook at land expropriation without compensation is a licence to occupy land illegally. Mfeketo, who is new to the portfolio, reflected in an interview on Parliament’s mandate to the constitutional review committee in February to conduct investigations into whether the Constitution should be changed. Since then a decision was taken and the review committee began its work with an August deadline. But a spate of land invasions has also taken place in many parts of the country. “I know for a fact that some of them are not because they need houses. They are young people who still live with their families and they are not at the age that would say they need a house.” She said it begged the question whether invaders were occupying land genuinely because they want houses or if it was a question of “I must grab this land first to do business or whatever”. This was exactly the issue that needed to be discussed. “Because they might be doing that out of a complete misunderstanding and thinking now we can grab all this land for ourselves.” “After the debate and the decision to look at expropriating land without compensation, it seems as if it gave a licence to people to say ‘we’ll get any a piece of land that we need. We’ll invade. “But that’s not the meaning.” There would not be land occupations, she said, if there were and people were aware of time frames and when they were going to get houses. “I think it’s frustrating that municipalities are not able to do their integrated development plan as is in the Constitution.” Municipalities were doing paperwork and handing that over to consultants instead of going to communities and really interacting and engaging. “Now it becomes difficult when you’re going to respond with Red Ants and the police when there’s invasion of land.” This is why, Mfeketo said, there needed to be dialogue for South Africans to understand “we are not going to build a tin shack on whatever land we see”. Meanwhile, the constitutional review committee has expressed its concern about the perceived “fear mongering” by certain groups that used SMSs in an attempt to distort the work of Parliament. The committee said in a statement that is has become aware of an SMS in Afrikaans in which it was alleged that the management of an agriculture union in Muldersdrift at a recent meeting told people that the intention of reviewing section 25 of the Constitution was to expropriate everything they owned. The co-chairperson of the committee Vincent Smith said: “The mandate by the National Assembly is merely to review section 25 of the Constitution and other sections where necessary to make it possible for the state to expropriate land in the public interest and to propose the necessary constitutional amendments, where applicable.” -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN|news@afrotone.co.za