Public protector advocate Busisiwe Mkhwebane said she was concerned about the lack of cooperation from the Ministry of Police and State Security Agency(SSA) in her efforts to finalise a threat assessment to determine the level of protection for whistle-blowers in her investigation of funds at Umzimkhulu Memorial Hall in KwaZulu-Natal. The investigation was in connection with the appointment and payment of service providers for the dilapidated Umzimkhulu Memorial Hall. Mkhwebane said she raised her concerns following the spate of political killings in the province. Last week alone three politicians two from the ANC and one from the IFP were killed. On Monday Sifiso Cele, ANC Oshabeni branch treasurer at Ray Nkonyeni municipality in the Lower South Coast region was killed in front of his wife and kids. On Friday ANC member Musawenkosi “Maqatha Qashana” Mchunu was shot and wounded as he was getting out of his car at his home in KwaPata at the Moses Mabhida Region near Pietermaritzburg, while IFP Councillor in Ulundi and the party’s Zululand district chairperson, Samkelo Dlamini, was shot and killed on the same day. The late former ANC Youth League secretary-general Sindiso Magaqa, who was a ward councillor in the Umzimkhulu District Municipality, was also killed allegedly for raising questions about the memorial hall. In October 2017, Mkhwebane launched an investigation into allegations of maladministration, corruption and the imprudent use of public funds by the municipality. Public protector spokesperson Oupa Segalwe said prior to her commencement with her investigation, Mkhwebane condemned the violence and the killing of councillors. “Some whistle-blowers with information on the project have since turned to Mkhwebane saying they fear for their lives. “They have appealed for her office’s intervention,” Segalwe said. Segalwe said the public protector’s office has been engaged in talks with the Police Department and the SSA hoping to ensure protection for whistle-blowers. -Afro Worldview