IN A last-ditch attempt to reduce the effects of tariffs on steel imports, the government has encouraged domestic exporters to engage their US buyers to consider applying for product exemption under a process conducted by the US Commerce Department. This follows the “disappointing” move by the US to leave SA out of exemptions granted by the US on steel and aluminium tariff duties after major efforts taken by SA to overturn the decision. SEIFSA chief economist Michael Ade yesterday told Afrovoice that the decision by the US to reject SA’s application for exemption “was a travesty”. “It is clear that efforts by our government representatives, including the formal submission by Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies did not prevail.” Davies requested exemption of SA from duties on the basis that steel and aluminium exports to the US are a source of strategic primary and secondary products used for further valueadded manufacturing in the US, thereby contributing to jobs in both countries. The industry body says it is worried about the impact of the decision on the broader steel industry. “Despite South African exports of steel and aluminium to the US accounting for only 1.4% and 1.6% of U.S global imports respectively, these were still deemed as significant enough to threaten or impair US national security,” he told Afrovoice. This week, President Donald Trump signed proclamations granting permanent country exemptions to a select number of countries and extended by one month the Section 232 steel and aluminium tariff duty exemptions for others. Monday’s harsh decision follows the proclamation signed by Trump to impose a 10% ad valorem tariff on imports of aluminium articles and a 25% ad valorem tariff on imports of steel articles. These excluded selected countries including Canada, Mexico, the European Union, South Korea, Australia, Argentina and Brazil. The proclamation followed reports from the Secretary of Commerce that imports of these products threaten to impair US national security. The 330 000 tons exported from South Africa represents 5% of South Africa’s production equating to roughly 7 500 jobs in the steel supply chain. “SA does not pose a threat to US but will be disproportionately affected both in terms of jobs and productive capacity.” SA made representations to the US, including providing two written submissions. In addition, SA ambassador to the US Mninwa Mahlangu also engaged with the White House National Security Council staff, State Department, the Office of the US Trade Representative (USTR) and Commerce Department. Davies also had teleconferences with ambassador CJ Mahoney, the deputy USTR for Investment, Services, Labour, Environment, Africa, China and the Western Hemisphere on March 22 and again on April 30. In the submissions, SA argued that it itself was grappling with the consequences of the global steel glut and that it had stringent customs control measures and that there was no risk of circumvention or transhipment of steel from third countries. The US offered to restrict exports to a quota based on 2017 exports level. “However, despite these assurances, the US has decided not to exempt South Africa from the duties. “It is important to note that some of the exempted countries are the biggest exporters of steel and aluminium to the United States,” said the DTI. The department said the imposition of the duties will have a negative impact on productive capacity and jobs in a sector already suffering from global steel overcapacity. “In addition, the department said, it noted the different treatment of trading partners which will have an effect on the competitiveness of South African steel and aluminium products in the US – and is likely to displace South African products out of the US market in favour of the exempted countries”. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@afrotone.co.za