WATER and Sanitation Minister Gugile Nkwinti has ordered his department to reprioritise work and stop wasting money. Speaking at a pre-budget vote media briefing, he acknowledged he had inherited a department fraught with problems caused by systemic issues. Money had been spent on projects that were not mandated, while municipalities were given money without them having submitted programmes or projects on which those funds were going to be spent, he said. “The challenge is money transferred directly to municipalities. The assumption is they can perform. Yet that is exactly where the problem is,” he said, while confirming one in three municipalities was dysfunctional or in distress. Nkwinti said about R8bn, out of a R15bn budget was transferred to municipalities, adding that water and sanitation would engage with the national Treasury and the Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Ministry on the matter. “We want to be in command and in charge. We must take control of water resources in the country. Once we have the authority, which we want to put into place through the Water and Sanitation Bill we will be able in terms of the law to be in control of the situation. We will have responsibility over water.” Nkwinti said a five-point strategic plan has been developed to turn the department around. The five pillars of the plan were to establish a national water resources and services authority, national water resources and services regulator, water resources and services value chain, water resources and services master plan and an institutional rationalisation and organisational alignment. “We want to focus on the future as we correct some of the things that cannot be ignored entirely. Money was spent without being allocated. “You may go out of here despairing and thinking ‘hey there’s no money left for the department’. We have reprioritised quite a number of things and hope that Parliament will assist us.” On the impasse in Cape Town where mayor Patricia de Lille has been reinstated by the high court, Nkwinti said they did not want to talk to her or deputy mayor Ian Neilson until the situation had been resolved. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN|news@afrotone.co.za