THE ANC’s decision to explore ways to implement land expropriation without compensation within the existing constitutional provisions is beginning to strain its partnership with the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). Following the ANC’s 54th national congress resolution to endorse land expropriation without compensation, the party’s inaugural land summit at the weekend proposed to its national executive committee (NEC) the option “to test the limits” of the Constitution on land expropriation without compensation without amending section 25 of the Constitution. The ANC’s chief ally on the land issue is the EFF, which has demanded that the state own all land and that section 25 of the Constitution be amended. EFF deputy president Floyd Shivambu yesterday reacted with dismay at the ANC’s stance on section 25, describing the ruling party as “cowards”. “Whoever says expropriation without compensation is permissible within the constitutional framework is speaking hogwash and rubbish. @They (the ANC) are running away from expropriation and introducing some narrow legalistic notions,” he said. The ANC and the EFF joined hands in February earlier this year when the majority of MPs voted in favour of supporting land expropriation without compensation. Altogether 241 MPs voted in favour and 83 voted against the motion. ANC NEC member Ronald Lamola said this week that the Constitution was not a “sellout document” and that Parliament should expedite an expropriation bill and introduce a land redistribution bill. “Our view is that section 25 as it stands allows us to expropriate without compensation. But the debate has not been tested. So what we are saying is that let’s put section 25 to the test.” Agri SA yesterday entered the fray, saying it found it disappointing that the uncertainty around the ANC’s position regarding the amendment, or otherwise, of section 25, had apparently not been resolved. “This uncertainty and lack of clarity as to what type of land could be targeted for expropriation without compensation and how this will happen are having a negative impact on the sector and the economy in general. “Agri SA’s position is that the Constitution should not be amended. “The organisation will this week submit its commentary on the matter of expropriation without compensation to the constitutional review committee,” Agri SA said. The issue of traditional leaders who held communal land on behalf of the communities they led was also a bone of contention at the ANC’s land summit. For this another summit with traditional leaders has been punted in a bid to ease palpable tensions. bonolos@afrotone.co.za