Murder accused Thabani Mzolo will remain behind bars until 19 June when he will appear before the Durban Magistrates Court for his bail hearing. Mzolo made a brief appearance on Thursday in the Magistrates Court where he stands accused of killing Mangosuthu University of Technology student, Zolile Khumalo. Proceedings had to be postponed due to issues with verifying a proper residential address for the accused. A heavy police presence was deployed outside the court prior to the case which has sparked anger among communities fed up with the rampant rate of abuse and femicide. Extra police deployment ahead of the appearance of #MUT murder accused Thabani Mzolo’s at the Durban Magistrates Court #justiceforzolilekhumalo #zolilekhumalo @AfroVoiceLIVE @afroworldview pic.twitter.com/GAXQ5ujSXI — Sibongiseni Maphumulo (@SiboMaphumulo) May 17, 2018 During proceedings, Prosecutor Calvin Govender told the court that on the fateful day, Mzolo shot Zolile Khumalo twice and kicked her while she lay bleeding on the ground. While he was leaving the dock following his brief appearance, Mzolo showed the middle finger to reporters which sparked anger among Zolile Khumalo’s family. A defiant Thabani Mzolo shows the middle to reporters as he leaves the dork and angers the family of #zolilekhumalo @AfroVoiceLIVE @afroworldview #justiceforzolilekhumalo pic.twitter.com/CNOEtcJVFA — Sibongiseni Maphumulo (@SiboMaphumulo) May 17, 2018 Friends of the deceased could not hold back their tears and anger when Mzolo entered the dock with a smile on his face during his previous court appearance earlier this month. Mzolo faces three counts, one of murder and the others of being in possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition. He is alleged to have gunned down Khumalo at the Lonsdale Hotel halls of residence after she broke up with him and refused to get back together with him. The family of the 20-year-old first-year quantity surveying student has previously said that they were finding it hard to come to terms with her death and the way she was murdered. Her brother, Siya Khumalo, said the entire family was devastated and it had yet to sink in that they would never see Zolile’s smile again. “We are trying to accept it but it’s very hard to do,” Khumalo said. “We are hurting a lot but we are grateful to police for apprehending her killer.” The devastated brother said the family was not even aware that Zolile had started dating or that she had a violent ex-boyfriend. “Truthfully we don’t know what to believe any more. There are so many stories out there especially on social media, but no matter what they say, I know my sister and we know who Zolile was to her family,” Khumalo he said. Meanwhile, a memorial service for Zolile will be held at the MUT main campus today. Afro Reporter