Energy Minister Jeff Radebe has on Tuesday dismissed claims that the introduction of Independent Power Producer (IPP’s) will result in rampant job losses. Radebe said coal mines were reaching their lifespan which would have eventually led to job losses. “Job losses due to IPP renewal are a myth. It is a right thing to introduce renewables in SA, we also have international obligations to reduce carbon emissions. Job losses are because some of the coal mines have reached the end of their lifespan,” He further said that the department had no intention of moving the IPPs’ Office to the Central Energy Fund. However, during the department’s budget speech last year his predecessor Minister Mmamoloko Kubayi-Ngubane had announced the move of the office. On Nuclear energy, Radebe said the government was finalising its Integrated Resource Plan, which would indicate the role of nuclear, adding that he can’t pre-empt whether there would be public consultations on the matter. Radebe was addressing portfolio committee of Energy on Tuesday in Cape Town. Last month trade union Numsa and civil group Transform RSA asked the court to interdict Energy Minister Jeff Radebe and Eskom from concluding agreements IPPs until the court heard an application by the Coal Transporters Forum (CTF), and also to make submissions on the CTF case. This is after the two parties obtained an urgent court interdict stopping the signing of a contract between government, Eskom and the IPPs. Through its filing affidavit the union argued that it was not in opposition with the introduction of renewable energy or an energy mix, as it was one of the first trade unions in the country in 2012 to call for a transition from fossil fuels, because of the harmful effects of climate change on members and their families. “However, we demand a renewable energy (RE) sector which is controlled and owned by workers and the community. Furthermore, the conclusion of the IPP agreement will automatically result in the closure of five Eskom power stations in Mpumalanga, which will result in at least 30 000 jobs being lost,” Numsa Secretary-General Irvin Jim said. -Afro Worldview Reporter  