President Cyril Ramaphosa has written to the National Council of Provinces informing it that the national executive will be taking over the administration of the entire North West province government. Chairperson of the National Council of Provinces (NCOP) Thandi Modise confirmed today that her office had received communication from the president on Friday notifying the House of Cabinet’s decision to invoke Section 100 (1) of the Constitution to address challenges facing the North West Province. “As enjoined by the Constitution, the NCOP must independently conduct its own assessment that the National Executive observed all procedures and circumstances for the intervention and must make a determination within 180 days,” she said in a statement. This follows violent protests in the past weeks by community members protesting for the removal of Premier Supra Mahumapelo and his subsequent decision to take a leave of absence. Following this, an Interministerial task team lead by minister in the Presidency Dr Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma was tasked by the president to investigate the situation in the North West in the past week. The team presented the report to Ramaphosa on Wednesday. It is reported that the decision to place the entire province under national government was taken after the findings of the report. Speaking to Afro Worldview news channel today, SACP provincial secretary, Madoda Sambatha said that they had not been formally informed of the whole province being placed under national administration. However, he said that during their consultations with the Interministerial committee they had indicated that it should not have been the Department of Health only that was placed under administration. “Our suggestion was that the whole provincial government must be placed under administration,” Sambatha said. About two-thirds of municipalities in the province are being run by the Department of Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs. Sambatha said that they also proposed during these consultations that local government must also be placed under administration through the Department of Co-operative Governance and Traditional Affairs. -Afro Reporter