Embattled Cape Town Mayor Patricia de Lille says that she will be taking the Democratic Alliance (DA) to court following its Federal Executives’ announcement on Tuesday that her membership from the party has been ceased. De Lille is accused of repeatedly breaching the Code of Conduct for Councillors as well as the Constitution of the DA, for bringing the party into disrepute, as well as breaching the conditions of her suspension. The DA is now using section 3.5.1.2 of its constitution to get rid of De Lille citing that she had made public declarations about her intention to resign from the Party, which is against party rules. De Lille took part in a radio interview on Radio 702 where she alluded ‘on two occasions’ that she indicated to resign from the DA as soon as she “had cleared her name”. The DA Constitution provides, in section 3.5.1.2 that: “A member ceases to be a member when he or she 3.5.1.2  publicly declares his or her intention to resign and/or publicly declares his or her resignation from the Party;” — Democratic Alliance (@Our_DA) May 8, 2018  “Now the party has forced me to return to the Courts, which I will do on Friday the 11th of May 2018. As I speak my lawyers have sent the court papers. My lawyers will then send it on to the DA lawyers. I will show on Friday that this so-called automatic cessation clause is unconstitutional, and its unfairly applied to me. That is the purpose of going to the court on Friday,” said De Lille De Lille has reiterated her innocence in the matter and claims that the DA has treated her unfairly. Regarding the court action against the DA on her removal, De Lille said that she will also be laying criminal charges against DA members who shared a fraudulent Auditor General’s document concerning her on social media. The document was allegedly also shared by some DA members of Parliament. Furthermore, she said that she would also write to the speaker of parliament to take action against those MP’s for a ‘violation of the code of conduct.’ “The second part of the charges that I will lay today is one of Crimen injuria because people have been smearing my name in public,” she said. De Lille says that she is fighting the DA in order to clear her name. She said that she was denied ‘due process’ within the party which has left her with no choice but to go to the courts. “There was a predetermined outcome, the predetermined outcome was to get rid of Patricia de Lille,” she said. -Afro Reporter