PARLIAMENT’S portfolio committee on police is to hold a special hearing on the recent spate of cash-in-transit heists next month. Gauteng was the target of two cash-intransit heist in just 48 hours last week, in Boksburg and Pretoria. Five heavily armed criminals, allegedly involved in the Boksburg heist, were later arrested in Johannesburg after a shoot-out with police. Portfolio committee chairperson Francois Beukman expressed concern that cash-in-transit heists were becoming normal in the country. “These acts of criminality, undertaken using high calibre rifles, must be condemned at all times and society must work with law enforcement agencies to effectively deal with the matter. SAPS management must also strengthen the Crime Intelligence and Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation Units to deal with the upsurge from various angles,” Beukman said. He said the portfolio committee believes that police management should implement short- to medium-term measures to deal with the trend. “They must be successfully prosecuted and they must receive lengthy sentences in order to use them as examples that lawlessness will never be allowed to reign supreme.” The Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, in collaboration with the SAPS, have launched a serious manhunt for the dangerous suspects in the heist that happened in Boksburg. It is alleged that two cash-armoured vehicles en route from the depot to a bank in Kempton Park were confronted by about four vehicles with a group of heavily armed suspects. A brief shoot-out ensued and the security guards were injured. They were then disarmed and both the trucks were damaged with explosives. The suspects then fled the scene with an undisclosed amount of money. Several firearms including AK47 rifles and ammunition, vehicles suspected to have been used and some of the stolen money, were seized. “The efforts of integration in various law enforcement agencies in the province are beginning to bear fruit. I need to commend our various law enforcement officers for their involvement and the manner in which they dealt with the cashin-transit heist incident in Boksburg,” MEC for community safety, Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane,said. “In recent weeks Gauteng has experienced a spate of cash-in-transit robberies. The brazen nature of these robberies is shocking and put the lives of ordinary citizens in danger. “However, I am impressed about the work of the Gauteng law enforcement agencies forum in coordinating and strengthening integration of provincial law enforcement agencies to intercept and promptly respond to incidents such as these. However, it is important that we adopt a more preventative strategy to avoid the recurrence of these incidents in the province,” Nkosi-Malobane said. -NTOMBI NKOSI|ntombin@afrotone.co.za