WITH a box-office income of more than R1.6m in over five weeks, there is growing talk that the local western crime film starring Hamilton Dhlamini and Vuyo Dabula, Five Fingers for Marseilles, (FFFM) has failed to attract audiences, which may result in the movie being taken off circuit. However, speaking to Afro Voice, founder of Indigenous Film Distributors, the company behind the distribution of the film, Helen Kuun, pointed out that unlike feel-good movies such as Keeping Up with the Kandasamys which made more than R16m at the box office last year, the western film genre is not popular due to its violent nature. “Five Fingers is playing on 11 sites and it is in its fifth week, with R1.6m in ticket sales to date. That is very solid business for a western if you consider how they typically perform in South Africa,” Kuun said. “Even Tarantino’s Hateful Eight did not reach the FFFM level nor did True Grit. Also bear in mind this genre is pretty violent so the film has a 16 rating. High ratings have an impact on a film’s intended possible audience. “Considering this along with the fact that the film is subtitled and none of the other westerns were, the film has done well.” The R1.6m is despite Five Finger’s strong opening weekend, which saw the film debut with R500000 in ticket sales. So strong was its opening that it was reported to have outperformed other local action/crime genres such as iNumber Number (2013) and Jerusalema (2008). In its 2017 box-office report, the National Film and Video Foundation reported that South Africa took a 17% drop in revenue from 2016, while in 2017 only 24 South African films were released in cinemas with combined earnings of R44.5m. Box Office Mojo, a movie revenue platform reported that Black Panther has earned more that R72m in South Africa, almost surpassing previous record of R89m held by Fast & Furious 7 in 2015. Creative and Cultural Industries Federation of South Africa president Tony Kgoroge laid the blame on the lack of support for local stories to institutions such as the National Film and Video Foundation and the Department of Trade and Industry. “We can’t blame distributors of films such as cinemas. These are business entities and their decision making is informed by how much your film has invested in its marketing budget. “Not many local films have the money needed to be able to do proper marketing,” Kgoroge said. Kgoroge also blamed script writers who “populate us with stereotypical stories about us without involving us the in their processes”. “Until we start telling our own stories, local films will continue to suffer and fail to break even, let alone make a profit,” Kgoroge said. -SIYABONGA SITHOLE|siyabongas@afrotone.co.za