THE ANC dispute resolution committee will tomorrow flex its muscles regarding the stalemate relating to the Mpumalanga elective conference. One of the key tasks of the conference is to elect a replacement for Deputy President David Mabuza. Members from the committee will tomorrow and on Thursday sit in Nelspruit to investigate the provincial executive committee (PEC) and among others allegations that Mabuza “parachuted” mayor Refilwe Mtsweni without “canvassing” ANC structures and the ruling party’s alliance partners. Other allegations include concerns of gatekeeping in relation to the upcoming provincial elective conference scheduled to sit on Saturday and concerns that Mabuza named his preferred successor, acting provincial secretary Mandla Ndlovu, before branch members could apply their minds. Former Save Mpumalanga ANC group leader Peter Nyoni, who is vying to replace Mabuza as provincial chairperson, yesterday lamented Mabuza’s influence over the PEC despite his departure. “The deputy president (Mabuza) indicated that he’s anointing him (Ndlovu) to take over. It’s an act of dividing the organisation and creating instability in the party,” Nyoni said. “The ANC is a democratic organisation and branches of the ANC should be allowed to express their views on who they want to become their chairperson. “The nod of approval came from the deputy president, someone who is influential. Ndlovu is seen as a player and a referee at the same time,” Nyoni said. Nyoni, former ANC deputy chairperson David Dube and Charles Makola among others recently cried foul over Ndlovu’s dual role as provincial secretary and acting provincial chairperson. They accused Ndlovu of being a “player and referee” against the background of a contestation to find a replacement for Mabuza. Regarding Mtshweni’s swearing in as mayor, Nyoni said: “These changes were done without engaging ANC structures and the alliance partners. One cannot just decide out of the blue.” Provincial members also complained about a collapsed regional general council (RGC) that did not sit last weekend. “It was supposed to sit and the RGC needed to discuss the question of the provincial conference. They (PEC) don’t want the PGC to sit because they feel it could divide the ANC going into the national elections next year. “How can filling three vacancies divide the organisation? They are advancing a non-political reason for the PGC not to sit. These are narrow and factional interests and are not good for the organisation,” Nyoni said. ANC national organiser Senzo Mchunu deferred questions to national spokesperson Pule Mabe. “Speak to the national spokesperson Pule Mabe,” he said. Both Mabe and Ndlovu were unavailable for comment yesterday. Positions of provincial chairperson, deputy chairperson and additional PEC members posts need to filled at the conference. -BONOLO SELEBANO|bonolos@Afrotone.co.za