SOUTH Africa is preparing to take the International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF) to the Court of Arbitration for Sport over the introduction of new testosterone regulations that could end star athlete and Olympics gold medallist Caster Semenya’s career. In terms of the new rules introduced last month, athletes will only be allowed to compete if they take medication that reduce their naturally high levels of testosterone. Because of her high testosterone levels, Semeya will fall foul of this rule. Sports Minister Thoko Xasa yesterday said the South African Sports Federation and Olympics Committee had been directed to use its medical committee to look at the new IAAF regulations. Athletics South Africa has also been requested to organise a legal team that will put together the country’s position in opposing the new IAAF regulation. “We want to take them to the Court of Arbitration for Sport. We are determined to take the matter forward. We are encouraged because Canada succeeded. We still believe the world is going to support us,” Xasa said at a pre-budget vote briefing in Parliament. On the debacle which saw rugby commentator Ashwin Willemse walking out of a SuperSport broadcast studio, Xasa said SuperSport had issued a statement about the incident and had also committed to deal with the matter. “We said to them ‘yes it’s fine’. We are saying when they have established the facts they are going to act in the best interests. They are coming back to report. It’s only then that I shall review my statement but my statement (about racism) still stands.” On rape allegations made against Safa president Danny Jordaan, Xasa said she had told the association to take leadership on the issue. “We have issued a statement but not after the latest revelation because in the initial one there were those allegations and an indication a court case was going to be opened. We continue to side with the victim and to say she must take the matter to court and due process must be followed,” the minister said. -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN|news@afrotone.co.za