SAFA CEO Dennis Mumble has welcomed Sports Minister Tokozile Xasa’s announcement that football has once again emerged as the most diverse sporting code in SA. The information came from the latest report of the Eminent Persons Group on Transformation in Sport (EPG), released yesterday by Xasa. Xasa announced that rugby, netball, football and cricket have met the transformation targets they had set for themselves over the past year. The minister added that several sporting federations were making steady progress to improve transformation. “Year-on-year change in the black graphic profile of senior representative teams demonstrate the progress made over a short period. The cricket percentage black profile has improved from 45% to 60%, whereas rugby has moved from 34% to 42% and netball from 37% to 46%,” Xasa said. Football was the outstanding achiever with a 92% generic black male participation rate. Mumble said they were encouraged by their achievements and that they would continue to work harder. “The minister allowed us to set our own target and we believe we set a realistic target, as you can see they are not too low,” Mumble said yesterday. “I’m happy that we have achieved the target in football, the only federation that has been able to achieve the target in all areas. We are very happy about that and, in the last year we attempted to do even better than we did in the year before.” Mumble said they are working hard in junior football teams to have more white players coming in country wide. “You know that we have done more than any other code. “We made sure that there is adequate representation in all our demographics in a country in our junior teams and I think we have done well in those teams and more white players are coming through.” Despite athletics having consistently performed well on the international stage, Athletics South Africa did not fully meet its targets due to its weak development programmes. However, ASA president Aleck Skhosana said they were happy with the improvement made and also highlighted the need to improve on school programmes. “We are happy compared to the past two years. We’ve done a lot of improvement in areas where we were weak. But there are still other areas. For example, the schools where we have to do a bit of work in order to ensure the data is reflecting on what is happening. With schools we have already started this year.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@afrotone.co.za