THE Ministry of Home Affairs has shot down an accusation by DA shadow minister of finance David Maynier that Malusi Gigaba blew R800000 on “intercontinental shopping trips” for his wife in his previous portfolio. In a statement released yesterday Maynier said that Gigaba, when he was finance minister, was responsible for the implementation of cost containment measures. “In this time he regularly called for greater efficiency in the use of public funds and should therefore have set an example when it came to belt-tightening measures. “However, it has now emerged (in Gigaba’s reply to a Parliamentary question) that a staggering R873 366.68 was blown on international travel for the minister’s spouse, Norma Gigaba, who accompanied him on investor roadshows to the financial capitals of the world – inter alia in China, the United Kingdom and the United States,” Maynier said. The fact was that the minister’s wife had no official duties on the investor roadshows and that taxpayers, who have been pushed to the limit by tax increases, should never have had to cough up for what were, in reality, a series of intercontinental shopping trips, Maynier said. “In the end, even if the expenses are in line with the guidelines set out in the Ministerial Handbook, it was simply wrong and the minister should do the right thing and pay back the money to the national treasury.” However, Gigaba’s spokesperson, Mayihlome Tshwete, dismissed Maynier’s allegations, adding that they were nothing new and a rehash of a previous question to Gigaba. He said: “It’s a deliberate campaign by Maynier to trying to be relevant. As shadow minister he has nothing to contribute about the current finance minister, Nhlanhla Nene. “This is the only way in which he can remain relevant.” Maynier, he said, has a certain quota of questions to meet. “They (DA members of Parliament) have a target that they must reach. He doesn’t say if the minister has broken any laws. “It’s the DA just being the DA.” Tshwete said Gigaba was not the only politician or finance minister who had travelled abroad with his spouse. “Even (Western Cape premier) Helen) Zille travels with her spouse. He accompanied her to Singapore.” -DENNIS CRUYWAGEN