THE North West ANC provincial executive committee (PEC) is still “intact”, ANC secretary-general Ace Magashule said yesterday. Magashule told journalists at the ANC’s national executive committee (NEC) meeting in Pretoria that the PEC – led by former premier Supra Mahumapelo – was still in place amid calls from President Cyril Ramaphosa’s backers for its disbandment. “The PEC is still intact,” he said. Magashule’s comments came on the back of Mahumapelo’s resignation last week amid increasing allegations of corruption and maladministration in the provincial government. However, going into the meeting, Mahumapelo’s detractors felt his resignation as premier was not enough and wanted to disband the entire PEC. Magashule made reference to the task of finding a permanent replacement for Mahumapelo as premier. He said the NEC would deliberate on three candidates for the position. Magashule also condemned the spate of senseless killings in ANC regions, with the most recent in Mpumalanga, where an Umkhonto weSizwe Military Veterans Association member was shot dead at a regional conference on Saturday night. “That is ill-discipline of the highest order for people to shoot at each other in a conference of the ANC. Killings are killings, there’s no politics there and the police must act,” Magashule said. Regarding the Ingonyama Trust, which controls three million hectares of tribal land on behalf of king Goodwill Zwelithini, Magashule downplayed former president Kgalema Motlanthe’s recent remarks at an ANC land summit about the legitimacy of the trust. “The views of comrade Kgalema were the views of the panel, which was appointed by Parliament. It was not the views of the ANC when it comes to traditional leadership and the land. “As the ANC we need to accept and understand that there are other views, we need to bring all these together and that’s why we will be engaging traditional leaders,” Magashule said. He said the ANC would be discussing its land summit recommendations to test the limits of the Constitution on whether it allows for land expropriation without compensation under existing constitutional provisions. bonolos@afrotone.co.za -BONOLO SELEBANO