WHILE one of Parliament’s two most senior presiding officers hinted she might not return after next year’s general election, the other said she would not want to return to the North West province to take over the premiership. Parliament speaker Baleka Mbete and the chairperson of the national council of provinces, Thandi Modise, expressed these views at a briefing, described as the last one of the fifth Parliament yesterday. Asked afterwards if anything should be read into her hints and talk about leaving a legacy, Mbete said: “I’m not suggesting anything. No, because none of us can, because we don’t belong to ourselves.” Modise said: “I have definitely not been approached to go back to the North West. I have read the speculation. I do not think at this late hour, the ANC will ask me to back to the North West. I’m just hoping they don’t.” Presiding over a pre-budget vote briefing, Mbete said that Parliament’s approach was that it was the last budget vote. “Next year, we’ll simply have the state of the nation speech and have the presentation two weeks later of the budget speech. We will not go into the usual budget vote. That then means we take a view that looks back at the whole term.” Parliament, she said, did not know if it had a full year ahead of it “because we don’t know the date of the next election”. The institution would also take a break from next week. However, the executive has submitted a priority list of legislation that would be done “before we rise for the elections”. Both Mbete and Modise said new legislation brought to Parliament by the end of this month would not be processed because of the time needed to take it through various stages. Parliament condemned the pervasive violence against women and girls. “It requires all of us – the state and citizens alike – to work together to eradicate it.” Mbete also reflected on ANC MP and former deputy minister Mduduzi Manana, who was embroiled in another allegation of assaulting a woman. “Often when we don’t come out on a daily basis to brief you, it does not mean nothing is happening. It is just that we are not in a possible position to tell you every day what we are doing,” Mbete said. It was true that often processes in politics in general but also in Parliament did not take as little time “as we would like. It’s not up to anybody to take a short cut on issues.’’ The question was, how to deal with “a person who yet again has behaved in a manner about which many South Africans feel very strongly”. Dealing with this matter correctly and appropriately meant that “by the time the decision is taken you are not going to be blamed for abusing your position”, Mbete said. Parliament has been allocated R2.5bn for the 2018-19 financial year. “This is a shortfall of R476m on the R2.8bn we requested. During the fifth democratic Parliament we consistently highlighted the direct implications of significant budget shortfalls for the performance of our mandate.” news@afrotone.co.za