AT THE Workers Day “celebration” in Bloemfontein this week, President Cyril Ramaphosa, thanked workers for building South Africa. The once-upon-a-time trade unionist spoke of the progress achieved through their labour, suffering, blood and sweat. But the sweat of black workers has hardly built a sweet South Africa for black workers and their families. Rather their sweat has been the saccharine nectar for foreign empires and white business in South Africa. The punishing sting of cheap black labour has been the honeysuckle of white monopoly capital since colonial days. And the very lifeblood of black workers has been spent on the crucifix of the noble yet unrequited cry for a living wage. Ramaphosa spoke of the introduction of a minimum wage as a victory for the more than 6 million workers in South Africa who earn less than the new minimum R20 an hour rate. While he readily admits that the hour rate is not a living wage, the president said: “The struggle for a living wage must continue but we must start somewhere.” But this is no comfort for workers whose daily triumph is securing an evening meal for his or her family on a paltry wage. That millions of workers are still caught in the starkness of a daily “Dead Man Working” reality is a stinging indictment of a post-democratic South Africa order that has failed to put workers first. A minimum wage is not a win for a worker whose everyday will continue to be a hive of paucity. In the words of US senator Bernie Sanders, “a job should take workers out of poverty, not keep them in it”. The new trade union federation, the South African Federation of Trade Unions (Saftu) has referred to the minimum wage as a “poverty wage”. The federation has been scathing of the “grossly overpaid tycoons, together with their new champion in the Union Buildings, multibillionaire President Cyril Ramaphosa, who expect workers and their families to survive on R20 an hour”. The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (Amcu) was livid that Cosatu had President Cyril Ramaphosa addressing workers at their Workers Day event. Amcu labelled the new president as a champion of neoliberalism and oppressive labour relations, who remained “unrepentant for his role in the Lonmin-Marikana massacre”. But for South African Communist Party secretary-general Blade Nzimande, Ramaphosa at the helm means “there is light at the end of the tunnel”. An astonishing statement indeed, from a once-upon-a-time communist. But perhaps the rapture – and capture – of politicians in Ramaphosa’s “New Dawn”, and the growing swarm of hypocrisy of new praise singers, is not the business of the working class. For as long as we view black poverty and white wealth as the natural order of things in our society – rather than the unnatural disorder of colonialism and apartheid, we will never afford the black worker in South Africa the requisite respect and rights. The state and political leaders will continue to offer artificially sweetened political slogans as sustenance to workers in an ever increasing dangerous liaison of hope deferred. Revolutionary leader Vladimir Lenin said: “Bourgeois democracy is democracy of pompous phrases, solemn words, exuberant promises and the high-sounding slogans of freedom and equality. “But, in fact, it screens the non-freedom and inferiority of women, the non-freedom and inferiority of the toilers and exploited.” There is a gaping dissonance between political leaders and the ordinary people of South Africa. The ANC has subscribed to an anti-poor, anti-worker paradigm that South Africa First means Investor First. Twenty four years into SA’s political democracy, the black worker remains a poor second, and with the ANC now more so than ever in the honeyed clutch of investors, workers should expect little real radical change to their everyday material conditions. In the first showings of this New Dawn, the mining charter has been anaesthetised, the astringency of land expropriation without compensation reduced through terms and conditions, in the soothing balm of investor reassurance. Inclusive economic growth, rather than radical economic transformation, has become the new buzzword in the faction –and fiction – of the post-December Ramaphosa era. “This New Dawn,” says Trade and Industry Minister Rob Davies, “is underpinned by improving investor and consumer confidence.” The “R” in radical economic transformation will not be found in the alphabet of any New Deal. After all, as Lenin said: “You cannot make a revolution in white gloves”. He also said: “Sometimes, we need to make our own history”. As we commemorate Workers Day, it would be remiss not to acknowledge the “suffering and blood” of the 34 mineworkers who were killed by police in the Marikana massacre in 2012. They fought with courage and selflessness for a living wage. Amcu has appealed for August 16, the day of this massacre, to be declared a public holiday. This is a noble call. Indeed, it will be a day of reckoning for Ramaphosa and all who have failed to put workers first. -Kim Heller is a writer and social commentator