THE Department of Basic Education said South Africans must decide whether they want history to be made compulsory or removed as a school subject. Department spokesperson Elijah Mhlanga said Minister Angie Motshekga was yet to unveil the content of the report handed to her by a task team on the subject. “The task team has handed over the report to the minister after which she will unveil the content of the report and outline the way forward,” he said. Motshekga yesterday said in a radio interview that she would release the report this weekend and it would be uploaded onto the department’s website for public input. The task team was formed to investigate whether history should be made compulsory in schools and whether the curriculum which is at present deemed by many to be too Eurocentric and untransformed, should be revised. Mhlanga said a review on the subject content had already been conducted. He said the minister had raised the matter of rewriting history textbooks to ensure that the history of all South Africans was represented. Education activist Hendrick Makaneta believes that all South African children should learn their history. “We have campaigned over the years calling on the government to make history compulsory up until Grade 12 level. “We note that history is compulsory from Grade 4 to Grade 9 which is commendable but we believe the Department of Basic Education must implement the resolutions of the ANC policy conference and the 54th national conference by ensuring that history is compulsory
for even students in the FET band, that is, grades 10-12,” he said. Makaneta said there was a definite need to review content taught in history classes. “The government has made significant strides in developing the Curriculum Assessment and Policy Statement (CAPS). The major challenge is implementation of the curriculum which rests with teachers in the classroom. The CAPS curriculum will go a long way in taking pupils to the required academic standard if it is implemented correctly.” Makaneta said there was also a need for greater focus on South African history in order to restore dignity to pupils. “We believe that it is necessary to decolonise teaching and learning. Pupils need to learn more about African heroes than European heroes.” shonisanit@afrotone.co.za