AS THE crippling bus strike in the country enters its fourth week, the CCMA and the Bargaining Council have placed a new proposal on the negotiating table in an attempt to end the stalemate between the transport bosses and trade unions. “The unions are deliberating on it,” Zanele Sabela, Satawu spokesperson, said. She, however, did not rule out intensifying the strike action if demands are not adequately met. “As unions we had a meeting on Friday and strategies were discussed but nothing has been finalised yet,” she told Afro Voice. Satawu is one of five striking unions in the bus sector. The others are Numsa, Tirisano, Tawusa and Towu. In a joint statement they promised to intensify the strike in the sector saying that the employer had shown the middle finger to both workers and commuters with the offer placed on the table. “Their refusal to engage meaningfully in wage talks demonstrates that they are dishonest and disingenuous and have displayed nothing but contempt for workers and the community at large,” the statement read. Among the issues that have created an impasse, the unions say, are the denial of payment of full wages for an alternative driver, as well as the refusal of the employer to pay the night shift allowance in accordance with the Basic Conditions of Employment Act. “We think the employers extreme arrogance is informed by the fact that the state is helping them by subsidising them while this strike is under way,” the statement said. Attempts by Afro Voice to get comment from the Department of Transport were unsuccessful. The statement also said that employers had lied in media reports when they claimed that they had never engaged in an offer of 9% for the first year and 9.5% for the second year. “They made that offer last week at the mediation but by the end of the talks they withdrew the offer. The only offer on the table now is an offer which was proposed by mediators of 8% for the first year and 8.5% for the second year,” the statement read. The South African Bus Employers Association and the Commuter Bus Employers Organisation have said that union demands are out of sync with the economic climate. They said in a statement that a 12% increase and concession to other demands would further widen the increasing gap between what drivers and commuters earn. “Employers therefore call on labour to critically assess the catastrophic effects that unreasonable demands would have for millions of South African commuters who already struggle to put food on the table for their families,” the statement said. hlonim@afrotone.co.za -HLONI MASHIGO