Better late than never, I finally made it behind the wheel of the new Volkswagen Polo and it was worth the wait. It did not matter that this snazzy white-silver Volkswagen Polo 1.0 TSI (Comfortline) was a five-speed manual derivative, after all I first learnt to drive in a chocolate brown Volkswagen Beetle during my teens in Grove End, Phoenix. Alas, with those salad days long gone, it is now time to salivate over the sixth generation of the Polo. To date this brand has shifted more than 14 million units around planet Polo. Since its launch in 2010, the Polo hatch has consistently been the second best-selling passenger car in South Africa, with its sibling the Polo Vivo, South Africa’s best-seller. Close to 200000 units have been sold since 2010. Last year, 22 916 customers in South Africa chose the Polo. We know about the impressive statistics but how does the new Volkswagen Polo 1.0 TSI (Comfortline) go? It is actually quite good and this view was obtained despite an adrenaline high after the amazing Audi TT RS for a few days the week before. Let’s forget the Audi TT RS and compare apples with apples when discussing the merits of one of the world’s most successful compact cars. In a way this new Volkswagen Polo reminds me of the narrative of Mmusi Maimane, the Soweto-born leader of the DA who views himself as a Nelson Mandela. What if mini-me Maimane, who styled himself on former US president Barack Obama, next decides he wants to walk in the footsteps of the Pope, would it be easier to dismiss him as “poop-hole”? Like wannabe Maimane, this Polo is a mini-me of the Golf in looks, style and substance. But it does not sell itself as a mini-me, Mr Maimane. It allows its claims and track record to speak for itself. I compared the new kids on the block to a silver golden oldie Polo belonging to neighbouring colleague Rohenie Naidoo, my cheerful travel buddy who takes away the need for music with her riveting stories. Her Polo is about 11 years old but handles like a rocket, especially after a battery change. It is a pleasure to drive, feeling like a solid, formidable car that is maturing almost as seamlessly as its lovely owner. But no more compliments, she’s a Chelsea fan and her cool hubby is in dreamland (hopefully as this piece was penned ahead of the spicy a-Roma encounter) with Liverpool. The Volkswagen Polo 1.0 TSI (Comfortline) is a dashing car. Priced at R263 500 standard, it came with several options that will bump up what you actually pay. These include nice to have options like metallic paint, front centre armrest, cruise control, a smoker’s package, App Connect, Voice Control, composition media with iPod/ iPhone Interface and a light and sight package. In the performance stakes, this five-speed manual is powered by a 1 litre engine, spewing out 70kW with a top speed of 187kmh. But as with most vehicles in this Volkswagen stable, including its gorgeous sister the Audi, fuel consumption across both brands is unaffected by their more powerful smaller engines. The 40 litre fuel tank offers a consumption of 4.5 litres per 100 kilometres, which is a considerable saving given another petrol price hike, taking it to astronomical levels. Leaving aside the car, the Volkswagen factory in Uitenhage is one of the three plants in the Volkswagen production network that assembles the Polo hatch. In March last year, Thomas Schaefer, the chairperson and MD of Volkswagen South Africa, along with employees and management of vehicle assembly, welcomed the 1 250000th Polo produced at the Volkswagen’s Uitenhage plant. This milestone celebrated years of production of the Polo in South Africa. The Uitenhage manufacturing factory produces Polos and Polo Vivos. In South Africa, the Polo is produced for both the local and export markets. That is a significant boost for the economy, bolstering job creation and ensuring that the brand remains top of mind in the hearts and wallets of consumers. The Volkswagen Polo 1.0 TSI (Comfortline) hits the sweet spot. -EDWIN NAIDU 