HOME Affairs Minister Malusi Gigaba yesterday launched the new biometric identification system, which uses unique biological traits such as facial recognition to identify individuals. Other features that come with the new technology is iris scanning, palm prints, infant prints, fingerprinting and DNA scans. There were plans to revamp facilities across the country, he said, adding that the department intended to improve services that would put an end to long queues. Gigaba, who launched the system in Cape Town, was joined by Minister of Small Business Development Lindiwe Zulu, Justice and Constitutional Minister Mike Masutha, the national police commissioner, Gen Khehla Sitole and the acting divisional commissioner for forensic services, fingerprints and related databases in the SAPS, Lt-Gen Dumisa Magadlela. The automated biometric integrated system (Abis) is a future-fit identification and security solution powered by sustainable technology and would offer a single view of citizens across the life cycle and their status change at various stages. It is set to replace the Home Affairs National Identity System (Hanis), which is manually operated and outdated, Gigaba said. Benefits of the would include service delivery improvements due to faster turnaround times for those applying for ID documents or passports, reduced cases of duplicate identities and a future-fit identification and security solution in support of the national government’s drive towards modernisation of all departments for service efficiency. The banks would also be able to verify client identity more quickly and tourism would benefit due to quicker response times at ports of entry to capture or verify a traveller’s identity. The police would be able to search for suspects by matching latent prints against records on Abis and improved border control, which should also create a competitive economic environment to attract critical skills, enable growth, increase foreign direct investment, create jobs and fight poverty. “Abis is a milestone in South Africa’s pathway towards a new digital national identity system. This development will go some way to ensure our people thrive in the fourth industrial revolution, as it helps enable empowered citizens, with relatively low-cost digital government services, trusted documents, enhanced security, less crime, improved investment prospects and prosperity,” Gigaba said. As part of the capturing of biometrics, the Department of Home Affairs is also set to improve entry to South Africa, with the rollout of eVisas, with the pilot
phase expected early in 2019. news@afrotone.co.za