Serial rapist Shadrack Xidada Chauke, 26, from Tembisa, was sentenced to an effective 279 years in prison in the Gauteng South High Court yesterday. Chauke was sentenced to life for each count of rape and attempted rape, translating to 25 life sentences (23 counts of rape and two of attempted murder), plus an additional 254 years for multiple counts of attempted murder, assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, robbery, and kidnapping. Between 2012 and 2014, Chauke raped 23 women in Tembisa, Ivory Park, and the Kempton areas. His modus operandi was to break into the victims’ houses and rape them. He also accosted, attacked their partners and made them watch while he raped the women until he was arrested in 2015. “The police responded to a woman’s call and arrested the suspect who was subjected to forensic tests as part of the thorough investigation, successfully linking him to a total of 17 other cases that had previously been reported to the police,” Gauteng police said yesterday. Gauteng police commissioner Lt-Gen Deliwe de Lange congratulated the investigators, the victims who had alerted the police to the whereabouts of the suspect and the witnesses for ensuring that Chauke’s reign of terror was brought to an end. “This sentence today will go a long way in encouraging our members to continue to prioritise the investigation of cases against women, children and other vulnerable groups. “For the police, arresting a suspect is a success. But a conviction in court and multiple life sentences brings even more satisfaction,” De Lange said. Gauteng MEC for safety and security, Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane said: “This will go a long way to send a strong message that women’s rights and those of girl children are human rights. “I also want to commend my team at Ikhaya Lethemba for providing court preparation support, trauma counselling services, accommodation and sexual offenses seminars to the victims of these heinous crimes. This provided the much-needed psychological support and positive re-integration into the society.” -KUTULLO MADISHA