THE family of slain Mangosuthu University of Technology student, Zolile Khumalo, said they were finding it hard to come to terms with her death and the way she was murdered by her exboyfriend, Thabani Mzolo. The 20-year-old first year quantity surveying student, was shot and killed last Tuesday at an off-campus residence, Lonsdale Hotel, in Durban near south beach. She was killed in front of her roommate for moving on with her life following her break-up with Mzolo. Her brother, Siya Khumalo, said the entire family was devastated and it had yet to sink in that they would never see Zolile’s smile again. “We are trying to accept it but it’s very hard to do,” Khumalo said. “We are hurting a lot but we are grateful to police for apprehending her killer.” The devastated brother said the family was not even aware that Zolile had started dating or that she had a violent ex-boyfriend. “Truthfully we don’t know what to believe any more. There are so many stories out there especially on social media, but no matter what they say, I know my sister and we know who Zolile was to her family,” Khumalo said. Yesterday, the grieving family based in Eshowe received a visit from the MUT branch of Sasco, of which Zolile was an active member. MUT SRC president Sandile Dlamini said the visit was about showing the family that they were not alone in their grief. “It was heartbreaking when we met the family, you could tell they had been hit hard by the loss,” Dlamini said. “However slowly but surely they will get there and come to terms with everything.” The murder of Zolile at a student residence has put a spotlight on security at Lonsdale and other off-campus residences. Newly appointed vice chancellor Duma Malaza said the institution was committed to ensuring a safe and secure environment for students at all residences. “For the external residences, the university has entered into a lease agreement with the landlords with guarantees and standards that the landlords are responsible for,” Malaza said. “The university assures itself on the quality of the premises and compliance with the set standards through regular inspections and the oversight role of studentrun house committees.” Meanwhile, security has been beefed up at the Lonsdale res as students still fear for their lives. Mzolo is due to reappear at the Durban Magistrate’s Court on Thursday, on the same day as the memorial for Zolile will be held at the MUT main campus. –SIBONGISENI MAPHUMULO|sibongisenim@afrotone.co.za