HYPERTENSIVE diseases in pregnancy, thyroid disease and peripartum cardiomyopathy in pregnancy are just some of the topics that came under sharp focus at the Africa Health Congress at the Gallagher Convention Centre yesterday. Chris Hani Baragwanath Hospital’s Dr Edward Buga, who was addressing delegates on peripartum cardiomyopathy, a rare type of heart failure, said there was a lack of awareness on the condition. Peripartum cardiomyopathy occurs during the last month of pregnancy and shortly after birth. In South Africa it is estimated that 1 in a 1000 pregnant women will develop the condition. “Peripartum cardiomyopathy is a condition that affects pregnant women or those in the post partum period where their hearts stop functioning,” Buga said. He said there were a lot of theories on what causes peripartum cardiomyopathy. “When you fall pregnant, you have an enzyme that helps your heart to take the strain of pregnancy because your blood volume goes up, your heart rate goes up and your stroke volume goes up because the heart is working at a higher function than when you are not pregnant. “It needs to dilate and to increase the number of blood vessels in the muscle so that muscles get enough oxygen,” Buga said. Symptoms of peripartum cardiomyopathy include shortness of breath, a cough that produces pink frothy sputum, sudden swollen legs and blotting. Buga said one of the challenges with peripartum cardiomyopathy is that the condition needs to be diagnosed. “We first make sure that there is not a direct cause. It’s a diagnosis of exclusion. There shouldn’t be an infection, anaemia, thyroid disease, a toxin that damages the lungs. Also, you need evidence that in the last month of pregnancy or before they never had a structural heart problem.” Women who are pregnant with twins are also at high risk. Buga said good antenatal care was crucial to ensure that the condition was detected. “The best way to prevent it is actually very good antenatal care. When we know the risk factors we will explain to the patient the symptoms because we will be able to do a diagnosis of exclusion, then we can also do a blood test which can tell us if the heart is being strained, do an ultrasound of the heart and it will show us if the heart is dilated and if the heart is not pumping well,” he said. Prof Tina Lavender addressed the congress on the need for a humane approach to stillbirths. According to the World Health Organisation, stillbirths remain a neglected issue. Figures by the health body indicates that in 2015, for every 1000 total births globally, 18.4 babies were stillborn. Most of these stillbirths occurred in low- and middle-income countries. Lavender said while there was progress in addressing the issue, it was slow. She said there was a need for a multidisciplinary effort in addressing the problem. -LERATO DIALE|leratod@afrotone.co.za