THE death of Katlego Joja, a 10-yearold autistic girl, has stirred the anger of Mamelodi residents who say the service offered by the local police left much to be desired. Community members yesterday marched to the Mamelodi West police station to hand over a memorandum of demands which included speeding up the Joja case and an update on all other cases that the police are yet to crack. This follows claims by Joja’s family that they had been turned away by the police twice before they could open a case of a missing person. The police officers who were on shift at the time supposedly told the family to wait 24 hours before opening a case. This has received widespread condemnation, including from community safety MEC Sizakele Nkosi-Malobane, who said those involved would be punished accordingly. A disciplinary process has already started and some officers are suspended. Organised by the social activism movement, Not In My Name, the march held yesterday was attended by throngs of community members, including pupils from various nearby schools, religious, traditional and community leaders. Local businesses and taxi associations also took part. Community leader Oupa Motshwenyi called on men in the community to take it upon themselves to protect women and children as it was more often than not them who were the offenders. “This is not the first time something like this happens and we hope we never have to have such a gathering again addressing a similar incident. I was very saddened at how the police treated Katlego’s family when they tried to open a case. Why must we suffer even at the
hands of police? We are not fighting the police but we demand that they do their jobs,” he said. Reverend Dr Paledi Magopa said as religious leaders, they would continue supporting the family in prayer even after the “madness” has died down. He urged community members to help the police in investigating the case by offering any information that could help solve it. Speaking on behalf of the family, Joja’s aunt Teboho Lebeloane expressed the family’s gratitude for the community’s support. She described the pain felt by the family as “feeling as though someone had dug their hearts out with a knife”. She said she was hopeful that if there was any foul play, those involved would pay the price. The marchers also demanded that the police give an update on the case of Zinhle Ndala whose body was found in a stormwater drain after she went missing in 2016. No arrests were made. Receiving the memorandum from the residents, Mamelodi station commander Brig Lungiswa Tshayana said their concerns would be given the necessary attention. lillians@afrotone.co.za