WHILE the ANC in Johannesburg said mayor Herman Mashaba’s sacking of another councillor was an indication of an administration in crisis, the IFP said it was disappointed but not surprised by the sacking of housing member of the mayoral committee Mzobanzi Ntuli. He is the fourth MMC to be axed by Mashaba’s administration since the DA took power in 2016 in a coalition with, among others, the IFP and EFF. “It will require a different leadership to effect the turnaround of this critical function,” Mashaba said. Phineas Matsemela Madisha, ANC caucus housing whip, said: “Mashaba pushed the appointment of a candidate who came in at number five in the interview process as the executive director for the department of housing. This appointment is directly linked to the poor performance of the department.” He blamed the problems on Mashaba’s failure to address the crisis of a crumbling coalition government (between the DA and EFF) and obsession with “unfounded claims that his administration inherited a department that was performing poorly”. IFP Gauteng caucus leader Bonginkosi Dhlamini said Ntuli’s efforts to turn things around were compromised by “Mashaba’s insistence on employing an incompetent executive director”. He said the IFP insisted for a long time that the director be removed but was surprised that “Mashaba on May 17 removed him and subsequently developed an appetite to remove Ntuli”. Madisha said the dismissal of Ntuli should be a reminder to all coalition partners that the DA would use them to stay in power and spew them out once it had achieved its objectives. “We call on the IFP to take a look at its participation in the DA-led coalition government.” But Dhlamini said: “The IFP is still committed to the principle of being part of the alternative government but cannot be part of the same practices conducted by our newfound partners and their political handlers. “In that sense, we will communicate our next move in due course, given our principled commitment to this arrangement. -NTOMBI NKOSI|ntombin@afrotone.co.za