The Democratic Alliance (DA) has on Saturday suspended the debates on the future of the Executive Mayor of Cape Town Patricia De Lille to seek legal advice on the matter. The DA’s Federal Executive (FedEx), which is the party’s highest decision-making body outside of Federal Congress met to discuss amongst other issues, the future of De Lille. This comes after the DA’s caucus in Cape Town last week moved a motion of no confidence against her using the newly adopted recall clause. Following the motion against her, that was supported by over 70% of the party, she was asked to submit reasons why she should not be expelled. The mayor is accused of repeatedly breaching the Code of Conduct for Councillors as well as the Constitution of the DA, for bringing the DA into disrepute, and for breaching the conditions of her suspension. The party is accusing De Lille halting these negotiations as she has since served the party with legal papers. “during the course of these deliberations, we received legal papers from Ms de Lille advising that she intends approaching the courts. As a result we have suspended discussions pending legal advice,” reads the DA statement. However, De Lille has refuted the DA’s claims that she has served the party with legal papers. “2nd Deputy Chairperson of Federal Council, Natasha Mazzone, has announced that the FedEx didn’t make a decision because I served legal papers on the DA which advised that I intended to approach the courts and then FedEx deferred their decision. I wish to make it clear that I have not formally served any court papers on the party with regards to the recall clause,” said De Lille. De Lille said her lawyers only sent the party a copy of her draft papers which would only be formally issued and served had the recall clause been invoked. The party says that it will resume the discussions into De Lille’s future next week once the legal advice has been handed to it. 2nd Deputy Chairperson of Federal Council, Natasha Mazzone, has announced that the FedEx didn't make a decision because I served legal papers on the DA which advised that I intended to approach the courts & then FedEx deferred their decision. — Patricia de Lille (@PatriciaDeLille) May 5, 2018   I wish to make it clear that I have not formally served any court papers on the party with regards to the recall clause. — Patricia de Lille (@PatriciaDeLille) May 5, 2018  -Afro Reporter