DESPITE a R500m incentive to be rolled out across the metals and engineering sector, experts warned SA needs fundamental reform in the steel industry as thousands of manufacturers had shutdown. Hein van der Walt from the Confederation of Employers in SA yesterday told Afro Voice that by the time government incentives trickled down through the system, it would be too late and it would take too long to get new factories off the ground. “There needs to be a fundamental change in the sector,” Van der Walt said. Steel and Engineering Industries Federation of SA economist, Dr Michael Ade agreed and said the manufacturing sector, which had a turnover of about R5.8bn a year, was shedding jobs and needed urgent refocus in the sectors that could create jobs. The economist said that the manufacturing sector needed localisation. Trade and Industry Minister Dr Rob Davies this week announced a R500m incentive to be rolled out in the metal and engineering sector. Malebo Mabitje-Thompson, the deputy director-general for incentive development and administration at the Department of Trade and Industry, said, as with the vehicle sector, the incentive was aimed at supporting the procurement of equipment as well as investing in competitiveness to bolster the operations of enterprises. “Where it also makes sense, we will partner with some of the enterprises for supplier development. “The reason is that we are looking at the sector more as a value chain rather than just individual companies without looking at the supplier relationships. “We are worried about the foundry sector. We are worried that if that sector continues to decline in the manner in which it is declining now, we will quickly deindustrialise. We want to stabilise the foundry sector and in doing so, also work with the engineering services,” Mabitje-Thompson said. Ade said that the sector was fast becoming deindustrialised. He welcomed the incentives but expressed the hope that Davies would consult the industry on the manufacturing budget. He said that the focus must be on re-industrialisation, as well as on sectors that were improving job creation in the sector. He said that the incentive also could be in the form of a loan requiring companies to pay back the funds at high interest rates – higher than rates charged by banks. “We don’t want a regurgitation of what has been happening. There needs to be engagement with the sector.” Gerhard Papenfus from the National Employers Association of SA has been vocal about how SA needs to move past having one primary domestic steel producer, Arcelomittal SA. Papenfus said that a key starting point to fixing SA’s industrial manufacturing predicament was to have state of the art, reliable and efficient primary steel producers. Papenfus said the country needed steel producers capable of supplying quality steel at internationally benchmarked prices and terms. “If SA seriously wants to accelerate activity in its steel sector, this needs to be an all-inclusive programme involving raw material producers, steel producers and downstream manufacturers and fabricators. Their fortunes are inextricably linked.” Ade said that SA should import less and begin to manufacture its own products. -THELMA NGOMA|thelman@afrotone.co.za