THE coach of the year award has been the most debated topic recently on who actually deserves to walk away with the gong at the PSL end of year function later this month. Many pundits believe Maritzburg United coach Fadlu Davids deserves the mantle after he transformed the KZN outfit from strugglers fighting for survival into title challengers. But Mamelodi Sundowns coach Pitso Mosimane has queried what criteria the PSL is using to select who should walk away with it. Mosimane asked if this was the same criteria which saw Bidvest Wits coach Gavin Hunt and former Kaizer Chiefs Stuart Baxter win after they secured the league title with their teams. “Jingles” has won the league title with Sundowns and also won two coach of the month awards this season. “I don’t know what contributes coach of the year. Whether winning coach of the month contributes or not. “Whether it is the games you won, whether is the welfare or social responsibility of smaller teams,” Mosimane said after he was named the coach of the month for April/May yesterday. “Or is it because of the same principles that coach Gavin with Bidvest backing them or is it the same principle Stuart won with the biggest club with big sponsors? “Or the principles have changed. I don’t know, I fight for myself and when people go against me and do it indirectly, then I come out.” Mosimane said he chose Davids as well to win it as he could not vote for himself. The one award which Mosimane feels is not negotiable is that of the Footballer of the Year as he feels his player, Percy Tau, deserves it more than anyone in the league. Tau has been magnificent for the Brazilians in winning their record eight league title. “He scored 11 goals, had 11 assists. Contributed 45% of the 49 goals we have scored. “Played every Wednesday when other people were asleep. Played for Bafana Bafana when other players were not. “Never out of a game because of fatigue or even injury. He never played with a low tempo and next time with high. “If he didn’t play really well it is only one thing that he didn’t convert the chances he got. Played under high pressure must win games and not to make top eight. “If you want to put anybody closer to that, let’s look at the principle I talked about and you will see the list will get smaller quickly.” -NEVILLE KHOZA|nevillek@afrotone.co.za