ALL initiation schools around the city of Tshwane have been suspended for a year. The city’s health services unit announced that the suspension followed a resolution taken by the Commission for the Promotion and Protection of the Right of Cultural, Religious and
Linguistic Communities (CRLRC) on October 27 last year to suspend all initiation schools activities for the year 2018 in Gauteng. The move is aimed at addressing concerns around criminality, gross malpractices and unfavourable habitual conditions that have crept into this old age traditional ritual. The issues includes among others, the mushrooming of unregistered initiation schools, violence, murders and assaults, abductions, extortions, illegal occupation of land, initiation schools that have turned into a haven for criminals and noncompliance to some municipal by-laws. “Although Tshwane was found to be fairly in order and having an effective initiation school by-law, the commission has taken an all-inclusive decision to suspend all schools in Gauteng and to set regulations that prioritises safety and ensures compliance which must be met by December 2018. Pursuant to the resolution, the city fully supports and commits to abide by the resolution as issued by the CRL,” MMC for health, Sakkie du Plooy said. Subsequently, the city will not process any application nor will it issue any certificate for the operation of male and female initiation schools this year. The city advised that any initiation school found to be operating in the jurisdiction of the city should be deemed illegal and law enforcement processes will take its course. Meanwhile, earlier this year, Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Dr Zweli Mkhize tabled a bill to regulate initiation schools in a bid to eliminate deaths and injuries. According to the bill, initiation schools will have to keep updated financial statements, be registered with the government, should they fail to do this, they face closure or possible prison term. The bill also has a minimum age for initiates, requires traditional surgeons to be registered and should have the certificate proving registration, at all times. The bill has now been submitted to Parliament. shonisanit@afrotone.co.za